# Sample configuration file

The configuration file of OceanBase Change Data Capture (obcdc) consists of required and optional parameters in the format of key-value pairs.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p> For more information about obcdc parameters, see <a href='200.obcdc-configuration-items.md'>obcdc parameters</a>. </p>
</main>

The `cluster_user` and `cluster_password` parameters in the configuration file are required. They are used to specify the username and password of the sys tenant. Configure at least one of the `cluster_url` and `rootserver_list` parameters to specify the server information of RootService in OceanBase Database. If you configure both parameters, `rootserver_list` takes precedence. We recommend that you also configure some optional parameters. The following example shows the content of a sample configuration file named `libobcdc.conf`:

```shell
######### [cluster_info] #########
cluster_db_name=oceanbase
cluster_password=********
cluster_user=test
cluster_url=
# rootserver_list=

######### [working_mode] #########
meta_data_refresh_mode=data_dict

######### [synchronous information] #########
tb_white_list=*.*.*
tb_black_list=|

######### [module] #########
formatter_thread_num=20

######### [log] #########
log_level=ALL.*:INFO;PALF.*:WARN;SHARE.SCHEMA:WARN;TLOG.FETCHER:INFO;TLOG.FORMATTER:INFO;

enable_output_trans_order_by_sql_operation=1
```

## Use a configuration file

If you connect obcdc to your data consumption link, specify the configuration file in the code. For more information, see [obcdc development instructions](../250.obcdc-development-instructions.md).

If you use obcdc through obcdc_tailf, specify the configuration file when running the obcdc_tailf command. Here is an example:

```shell
[admin@test oceanbase]$ ./bin/obcdc_tailf -f libobcdc.conf -D output.txt
```

In the preceding example, `libobcdc.conf` is the relative path of the configuration file, and `output.txt` is the file where output data is saved. Replace the configuration file and the output data file as needed. For more information, see [obcdc_tailf](../300.obcdc-tailf.md).
