|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Prepare installation packages

Before deployment, make sure you have obtained the images and installation packages required for each product, which will be used for subsequent installation and deployment.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>You can download the installation packages for OceanBase Database and its related tools, drivers, and middleware from <a href="https://en.oceanbase.com/softwarecenter">OceanBase Download Center</a>. If you cannot find the installation packages for the corresponding version, contact OceanBase Technical Support. </p>
</main>

**The images and installation packages used for deploying the OceanBase cluster are shown in the table below:**

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>When you deploy an OceanBase cluster by using the CLI, you do not need to obtain the images or installation packages for OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP). </p>
</main>

<table>
   <tr>
       <th>Product</th>
       <th>Component</th>
       <th>Description</th>
       <th>Installation package/Image</th>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>OceanBase Admin Toolkit (OAT)</td>
       <td>OAT docker image <br>or<br>oat-all-in-one installation package. <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p><ul><li>We recommend that you install OAT by using the oat-all-in-one installation package in a new environment. </li><li>The oat-all-in-one package provides Docker, OAT, MetaDB, NLB images, and commonly used tool packages. </li></ul></p></main></td>
       <td>Installs OAT. </td>
       <td><ul><li>OAT docker image: <ul><li>X86_64: oat_x.x.x_xxxxxxxx_x86.tgz</li><li>ARM_64: oat_x.x.x_xxxxxxxx_arm.tgz</li></ul>
       </li><li>oat-all-in-one installation package: <ul><li>X86_64: oat-all-in-one-x86-411.tar</li><li>ARM_64: oat-all-in-one-arm-411.tar</li></ul></li></ul></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td rowspan=2>OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP)</td>
       <td>OCP docker image.</td>
       <td>Deploys OCP. </td>
       <td><ul><li>X86_64: ocpxxx.tar.gz</li><li>ARM_64: ocpxxx.arm.tar.gz</li></ul></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>MetaDB docker image. <main id="notice" type='notice'><h4>Notice</h4><p>If you install OAT by using the OAT docker image, you must provide the MetaDB docker image when you deploy OCP. </p></main></td>
       <td>Deploys OCP MetaDB and MonitorDB. </td>
       <td><ul><li>X86_64: meta_xxxxxx_xxxxxx_x86_xxxxxxxx.tgz</li><li>ARM_64: meta_xxxxxx_xxxxxx_arm_xxxxxxxx.tgz</li></ul></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>OceanBase Database</td>
       <td>OceanBase RPM package. <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>For Debian/Ubuntu systems, you can directly use the RPM package, which is installed and deployed by OCP. You do not need to convert it to a <code>.deb</code> package. </p></main></td>
       <td>Deploys an OceanBase cluster. </td>
       <td><ul><li>X86_64:
                <ul><li>el7: oceanbase-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.el7.x86_64.rpm
                </li><li>al8: oceanbase-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.al8.x86_64.rpm
                </li></ul>
            </li><li>ARM_64:
                <ul><li>el7:
                    <ul><li>Enabled LSE (default): oceanbase-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.el7.aarch64.rpm
                    </li><li>Disabled LSE: oceanbase-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.nonlse.el7.aarch64.rpm
                    </li></ul>For more information about LSE, see <a href="../../../800.FAQ/300.deployment-faq.md">FAQ</a>.
                </li><li>al8: oceanbase-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.al8.aarch64.rpm
                </li></ul>
            </li></ul>
            <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p><ul><li>For Rocky Linux 9 and Alibaba Cloud Linux 3, we recommend that you use the al8 RPM package. </li><li>For operating systems with Linux Kernel 5.10 or later (glibc >= 2.32), we recommend that you use the al8 RPM package. </li><li>For operating systems with Linux Kernel earlier than 5.10, we recommend that you use the el7 RPM package. </li></ul></p></main>
        </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
       <td>(Optional) OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP)</td>
       <td>ODP RPM package. <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>For Debian/Ubuntu systems, you can directly use the RPM package, which will be installed and deployed by OCP. You do not need to convert it into a <code>.deb</code> package.</p></main></td>
       <td>Deploys the proxy service. </td>
       <td><ul><li>X86_64:
                <ul><li>el7: obproxy-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxx.el7.x86_64.rpm
                </li><li>al8: obproxy-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxx.al8.x86_64.rpm
                </li></ul>
            </li><li>ARM_64:
                <ul><li>el7: obproxy-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxx.el7.aarch64.rpm
                </li><li>al8: obproxy-x.x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxxxx.al8.aarch64.rpm
                </li></ul>
            </li></ul>
            <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p><ul><li>For Rocky Linux 9 and Alibaba Cloud Linux 3, we recommend that you use the al8 RPM package. </li><li>For operating systems with Linux Kernel 5.10 or later (glibc >= 2.32), we recommend that you use the al8 RPM package. </li><li>For operating systems with Linux Kernel earlier than 5.10, we recommend that you use the el7 RPM package. </li></ul></p></main>
        </td>
   </tr>
</table>