|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# archive_lag_target

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is available starting with V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`archive_lag_target` specifies the maximum delay allowed for log archiving.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter by using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

|      **Attribute**    |   **Description**   |
|------------------|--------------|
| Type             | Time |
| Default value               | 120s |
| Value range             | [0ms, 7200s] |
| Modifiable           | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.|
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.       |

## Considerations

* For a physical standby database based on log archiving, you can set the `archive_lag_target` parameter to half of the maximum delay allowed for the standby tenant.

* For other scenarios, such as a physical standby database based on network, we recommend that you set the `archive_lag_target` parameter based on the write pressure of the tenant and the required archiving timeliness. If the timeliness requirement is met, ensure that a log file of at least 64 MB is generated within the cycle specified by the `archive_lag_target` parameter.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>Log files and archive files are in the same format. A log file can be uploaded as a Normal archive file. </p>
  </main>

## Examples

Set the maximum delay allowed for log archiving to 120s.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET archive_lag_target ='120s';
```

## References

* [Prepare for log archiving](../../../../600.manage/600.backup-and-recovery/300.log-archive/200.preparation-before-log-archive.md)
* [Overview of physical backup and restore](../../../../600.manage/600.backup-and-recovery/100.overview-of-physical-backup-and-recovery.md)
