|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# default_progressive_merge_num

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>For V2.2.30, this parameter is available starting with V2.2.30.</p>
</main>

## Description

`default_progressive_merge_num` specifies the default number of progressive major compactions for a new table.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query the parameter by using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify the parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| -------- | -------- |
| Type             | Int       |
| Default value               | 0       |
| Value range             | [0, +∞) |
| Modifiable           | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

OceanBase Database supports progressive major compactions. After a DDL operation that requires rewriting data is performed on a table, the data rewriting can be distributed across multiple major compactions. In each major compaction, only part of the data is rewritten. You can use the table-level attribute `progressive_merge_num` to control the major compactions, or you can set the `default_progressive_merge_num` parameter to specify the default number of progressive major compactions for a new table.

If you do not specify the `progressive_merge_num` attribute for a new table, the system sets the value of the table-level attribute `progressive_merge_num` to the value of `default_progressive_merge_num`.

The following table describes the meanings of the values of the `progressive_merge_num` attribute:

* progressive num = 0: The default value of 100 is used.
* progressive num = 1: Full major compactions are performed. Incremental major compactions and progressive major compactions are not performed.
* progressive num = X: All data is rewritten across X major compactions. In each major compaction, 1/X of the data is rewritten.

## Examples

Set the default number of progressive major compactions to 100.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET default_progressive_merge_num = 0;
```

## References

[Modify a merge configuration](../../../../700.reference/200.system-management/500.manage-data-storage/200.merge-management/700.modify-a-merge-configuration.md)
