|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# default_storage_cache_policy

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>For OceanBase Database V4.3.5, this parameter is introduced starting from V4.3.5 BP2.</p>
</main>

## Description

`default_storage_cache_policy` specifies the default cache policy. It is the default value of the `storage_cache_policy` parameter at the tenant level. This parameter takes effect only on new tables.

<main id="notice">
<h4>Applicability</h4>
<p>This parameter applies only to OceanBase Database's Shared Storage (SS) mode. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  Both the `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  Both the `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>Due to a limitation, manually specifying the hot data cache policy only takes effect in MySQL-compatible tenants. If you modify this parameter in an Oracle-compatible tenant, or if the <code>sys</code> tenant specifies an Oracle-compatible tenant or another non-user tenant (such as the <code>sys</code> tenant or Meta tenant) to modify this parameter, the modification will be successful but the feature will not take effect. </p>
  </main>

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|----------|----------|
| Parameter type  | String  |
| Default value    | AUTO |
| Value range   | <ul><li>`HOT`: specifies to cache all data in the table as hot data to local disks. </li> <li> `AUTO`: specifies to use automatic hot/cold identification for all data in the table. That is, the shared storage decides the storage method for the table data. </li></ul> |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify this parameter. |
| Effective only after OBServer restart | No, the setting takes effect immediately. |

## Considerations

* By default, all new tables in the current tenant use the cache strategy specified by `default_storage_cache_policy` unless the cache strategy is explicitly specified by the `storage_cache_policy` parameter.
* Only user tables and indexes are affected by the `default_storage_cache_policy` parameter. System tables are not affected and always use the `AUTO` setting.

## Examples

* Set the default cache strategy for the current tenant to `HOT` in a user tenant.

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET default_storage_cache_policy='HOT';
  ```

* Set the default cache strategy for the `mysqltenant` tenant to `HOT` in the `sys` tenant.

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET default_storage_cache_policy='HOT' TENANT = mysqltenant;
  ```