|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# default_table_merge_engine

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>For OceanBase Database V4.3.5, this parameter was introduced starting from V4.3.5 BP3. </p>
</main>

## Description

`default_table_merge_engine` specifies the default value of `merge_engine` when a user tenant creates a table.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or query the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to obtain the value of this parameter.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|----------|----------|
| Parameter type  | String |
| Default value    | `partial_update` |
| Value range | <ul> <li><code>partial_update</code>: specifies that when a tenant creates a table, the default is <code>merge_engine = partial_update</code>.</li> <li><code>delete_insert</code>: specifies that when a tenant creates a table, the default is <code>merge_engine = delete_insert</code>.</li> </ul> |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify this parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately. |

## Considerations

The parameter `default_table_merge_engine` only affects the default format for creating primary tables in user tenants. It does not affect the `meta` tenant or the `sys` tenant. This parameter takes effect only when the `merge_engine` is not explicitly specified in the CREATE TABLE statement. If the user explicitly specifies the `merge_engine` for the table, the final `merge_engine` of the table will be parsed according to the user’s specification.

This parameter can be set to the following two values:

* `default_table_merge_engine = partial_update`: if the CREATE TABLE statement does not specify a `merge_engine`, the `merge_engine` for the table created by a user tenant will be `partial_update`.
* `default_table_merge_engine = delete_insert`: if the CREATE TABLE statement does not specify a `merge_engine`, the `merge_engine` for the table created by a user tenant will be `delete_insert`.

## Examples

* By default, `merge_engine = partial_update` is used by the user tenant for table creation, and the `merge_engine = partial_update` attribute is automatically added to the table creation statement.

    ```sql
    ALTER SYSTEM SET default_table_merge_engine = partial_update;
    ```

* By default, `merge_engine = delete_insert` is used by the user tenant for table creation, and the `merge_engine = delete_insert` attribute is automatically added to the table creation statement.

    ```sql
    ALTER SYSTEM SET default_table_merge_engine = delete_insert;
    ```

## References

* [Create a table](../../../300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/200.manage-tables-of-mysql-mode/200.create-a-table-for-mysql-tenant-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [Configuration best practices](../../../../400.deploy/700.best-practices.md)
