|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# dump_data_dictionary_to_log_interval

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>For V4.1.0, this parameter is available starting with V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`dump_data_dictionary_to_log_interval` specifies the interval at which the data dictionary is persisted for a tenant.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter by using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| -------- | -------- |
| Type   | Time |
| Default value     | 24H, in seconds by default |
| Value range   | (0s, +∞)|
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

The data dictionary is only available for user tenants. The data dictionary is persisted to the system log stream (SYS_LS) of a user tenant by using the PALF mechanism. After a user tenant is created, the data dictionary service is automatically enabled and runs on the leader replica of the SYS_LS log stream of the tenant.

When log archiving is enabled, an asynchronous data dictionary generation task is automatically triggered. OceanBase Database supports generating the data dictionary by using the tenant-level parameter `dump_data_dictionary_to_log_interval`.

Starting from OceanBase Database V4.2.0, you can record the data dictionary generation records by using DBA/CDB views. You can query the [CDB_OB_DATA_DICTIONARY_IN_LOG](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/8200.o-cdb_ob_data_dictionary_in_log-of-sys-tenant.md) view in the `sys` tenant or the [DBA_OB_DATA_DICTIONARY_IN_LOG](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/8300.o-dba_ob_data_dictionary_in_log-of-mysql-mode.md) view in a user tenant to obtain the dictionary location information.

## Examples

Set the data dictionary persistence interval for a tenant to 24H.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET dump_data_dictionary_to_log_interval = '24H';
```

## References

* For more information about log archiving, see [Log archiving](../../../../600.manage/600.backup-and-recovery/300.log-archive/100.overview-of-log-archive.md).
