|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# enable_auto_split

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `enable_auto_split` parameter specifies whether to enable automatic partition splitting for a tenant.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or query the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to obtain the value of this parameter.

* Modify the parameter

    The `sys` tenant and user tenants can execute the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the value of this parameter.

## Attributes

|  **Attribute** | **Description** |
|-----------|----------|
| Type   | Bool |
| Default value     | FALSE |
| Value range   | <ul><li>TRUE: specifies to enable automatic partition splitting. </li><li>FALSE (default): specifies to disable automatic partition splitting. </li></ul>|
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the value of this parameter.|
| Effective upon OBServer node restart| No. The parameter takes effect immediately after it is set.|

## Considerations

You can execute the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to set the value of this parameter.

The `enable_auto_split` parameter determines whether to create an auto-partitioned table when the table is created without explicitly specifying the auto-partition clause. If the auto-partition property is explicitly set for the table, this configuration does not take effect.

* If the value of the `enable_auto_split` parameter is `true`, an automatically partitioned table is created only when the table meets the automatic partitioning requirements.
* If the value of the `enable_auto_split` parameter is `false`, the value is modified to `true` later, existing tables that meet the automatic partitioning requirements are not affected, and only new tables are automatically partitioned.

For more information about automatic partition splitting, see [Automatic partition splitting (MySQL mode)](../../../300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/300.manage-partitions-of-mysql-mode/250.partition-splitting-of-mysql-mode/300.automatic-partition-splitting-of-mysql-mode.md) or [Automatic partition splitting (Oracle mode)](../../../300.database-object-management/200.manage-object-of-oracle-mode/200.manage-partitions-of-oracle-mode/250.partition-splitting-of-oracle-mode/300.automatic-partition-splitting-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Examples

The following example shows how to enable automatic partition splitting.

```sql
ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_auto_split = TRUE;
```

## References

[auto_split_tablet_size](450.auto_split_tablet_size.md)
