|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# enable_rebalance

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>This parameter was introduced in V1.4. </li><li>This parameter was promoted from cluster-level to tenant-level in V4.2.0. </li></ul>
</main>

## Description

The `enable_rebalance` parameter specifies whether to enable automatic load balancing.

The configurations of different tenants control different balancing operations:

* In the system tenant, this parameter specifies whether to perform tenant-level balancing.

  * false: No background unit migration is performed. However, unit migration is not controlled by this parameter when a node is permanently offline or in the DELETING state.
  * true: You can perform unit migration to achieve load balancing.

* In a user tenant, this parameter specifies whether to perform tenant-level balancing.

  * false: No load balancing is performed in the tenant. Ongoing balancing operations are canceled. If you perform the following operations, an error will be returned:
    * Increase or decrease the number of units in the tenant.
    * Change the first-priority primary zone. If the first-priority primary zone does not change, no error is returned.
    * Change the number of F replicas when the primary zone is set to RANDOM.
  * true: Load balancing can be performed in the tenant.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul>
  <li>If you want to perform load balancing between tenants, set the <code>enable_rebalance</code> parameter in the system tenant to True. If you set this parameter to False, tenant-level load balancing will not be performed. </li>
  <li>If you want to perform scaling or use automatic partition migration, you must set the <code>enable_rebalance</code> parameter in the tenant to True to enable automatic load balancing and partition migration. Otherwise, automatic load balancing and partition migration will be disabled in the tenant. </li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or query the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to query the parameter.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify the parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| Type | BOOL |
| Default value | True |
| Value range |<ul><li>  True: Enable. </li><li> False: Disable. </li></ul>|
| Modifiable | Yes. The `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement can be used to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart| No, the setting takes effect immediately. |

## Examples

* Disable both tenant-level and tenant-level balancing.

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = false tenant = all_user;
  ```

* Enable only tenant-level balancing.

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true tenant='all_user';
  ```

* Enable tenant-level balancing but disable tenant-level balancing.

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = false tenant='all_user';
            ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rebalance = true tenant='MYSQL';
  ```

## References

* [Scale a tenant by adjusting the number of units](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/300.adjust-unit-number.md)
* [Scale a tenant by adjusting the primary zone](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/800.tenant-scale-in-and-out/400.adjust-primary-zone.md)
* [Resource unit balancing](../../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/300.multi-tenant-architecture/500.tenants-and-resource-management/300.resource-unit-balancing.md)
* [enable_transfer](3000.enable_transfer.md)
