|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# freeze_trigger_percentage

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is available starting with V1.4.</p>
</main>

## Description

`freeze_trigger_percentage` specifies the threshold percentage of the tenant's memory usage for triggering a freeze.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter by using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

|      **Attribute**    |  **Description** |
|------------------|-----------|
| Type         | Int        |
| Default value           | 20  <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>Starting from V4.0.0, the default value is adjusted from 70 to 20.</p></main>     |
| Value range         | (0, 100) |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.         |

## Considerations

You can adjust the proportion of MemStore memory in the tenant's memory by using the following parameter:

* When the active MemStore memory usage of a tenant reaches `freeze_trigger_percentage * memstore_limit` (where `memstore_limit = tenant memory * memstore_limit_percentage`), the system automatically triggers a freeze (as a prerequisite for a dump) and then schedules a dump. After the dump, the system releases the occupied MemStore memory.

* When memory is insufficient, you can increase the value of `memstore_limit_percentage` and decrease the value of `freeze_trigger_percentage` to temporarily expand the memory and expedite the dump process. The `memstore_limit_percentage` parameter specifies the proportion of the tenant's memory that can be used for MemStore writes. The default value is 0, indicating that the system automatically adjusts the proportion of memory available for MemStore writes.

## Examples

Set the threshold percentage of the tenant's memory usage for triggering a freeze to 20.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET freeze_trigger_percentage=20;
```

## References

* [Dumps and major compactions](../../../../600.manage/1000.troubleshooting/400.storage/100.minor-freeze-and-compaction.md)
* [Dumps](../../../../700.reference/100.oceanbase-database-concepts/900.storage-architecture/300.dump-and-merge/200.dump.md)
* [Automatic major compaction triggering](../../../../700.reference/200.system-management/500.manage-data-storage/200.merge-management/200.automatic-merge-triggering.md)
* [Tenant memory full](../../../../600.manage/1100.emergency-response/300.common-emergency-response/200.problems-caused-by-capacity-changes/400.full-tenant-memory.md)