|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# global_index_auto_split_policy

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter was introduced starting from V4.3.5 BP2.</p>
</main>

## Description

`global_index_auto_split_policy` is used to control whether automatic partitioning is enabled for newly created global indexes.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

    Both the `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

    Both the `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter using the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement.

## Attributes

|  **Attribute** | **Description** |
|-----------|----------|
| Parameter type   | String |
| Default value     | DISTRIBUTED |
| Value range   | <ul><li>`DISTRIBUTED` (default): When there are multiple node resources available within the tenant (such as more than one primary zone or more than one unit), automatic partition splitting is enabled by default when creating a new global index.</li><li>`ALL`: Automatic partition splitting is enabled by default when creating a new global index.</li><li>`OFF`: The automatic partition splitting policy of the new global index follows that of the main table.</li></ul>|
| Modifiable | Yes, you can modify this parameter using the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement.|
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No, it takes effect immediately after being set.|

## Considerations

Adjust the value of the `global_index_auto_split_policy` parameter using the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement. As long as the main table is an automatically partitioned table, the global index will also be automatically partitioned. If the main table is not an automatically partitioned table, then the configuration follows the `global_index_auto_split_policy` policy.

* If `global_index_auto_split_policy` is set to `ALL`, automatic partition splitting is enabled by default when creating a new global index.

* If `global_index_auto_split_policy` is set to `DISTRIBUTED`, only when the tenant has multiple node resources and the main table is a partitioned or automatically partitioned table, will the global index table actually be created as an automatically partitioned table.

* If `global_index_auto_split_policy` is set to `OFF`, the policy follows that of the main table.

  * If you change the value of `global_index_auto_split_policy` to `DISTRIBUTED` or `ALL`, it does not affect existing tables that already meet the requirements for automatic partitioning; it only takes effect for newly created tables.

For more details on automatic partitioning, see [Automatic partition splitting (MySQL-compatible mode)](../../../300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/300.manage-partitions-of-mysql-mode/250.partition-splitting-of-mysql-mode/300.automatic-partition-splitting-of-mysql-mode.md) or [Automatic partition splitting (Oracle-compatible mode)](../../../300.database-object-management/200.manage-object-of-oracle-mode/200.manage-partitions-of-oracle-mode/250.partition-splitting-of-oracle-mode/300.automatic-partition-splitting-of-oracle-mode.md).

## Example

Enable automatic partitioning for newly created global indexes:

````sql
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET global_index_auto_split_policy = 'ALL';
````

## References

For information on controlling whether a tenant enables automatic partitioning, see [enable_auto_split](2350.enable_auto_split.md).
