|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ha_high_thread_score

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is available starting with V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`ha_high_thread_score` specifies the number of working threads for high-priority high-availability tasks.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  `sys` tenant and all user tenants can use the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to query this parameter.

* Modify the parameter

  `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| Type | Int |
| Default value | 0, indicating that the default number of working threads is 8 |
| Value range | [0, 100] |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

In V4.x, tasks related to high availability (HA), such as migration replication and backup recovery, are scheduled and executed by the tenant-level DagScheduler. Considering the limited thread resources of each tenant, the configuration parameters are no longer differentiated by task type. Instead, three HA-related configuration parameters are set based on task priority and importance. Each parameter corresponds to a different task type:

* `ha_high_thread_score`: specifies the number of threads for high-priority HA tasks such as replication, rebuild, and recovery.
* `ha_mid_thread_score`: specifies the number of threads for medium-priority HA tasks such as migration.
* `ha_low_thread_score`: specifies the number of threads for low-priority HA tasks such as backup, backup of backup, and backup cleanup.

## Examples

Set the number of working threads for high-priority HA tasks of the current tenant to 10.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_high_thread_score =10;
```

## References

* Set the number of working threads for medium-priority HA tasks: [ha_mid_thread_score](3600.ha_mid_thread_score.md)
* Set the number of working threads for low-priority HA tasks: [ha_low_thread_score](3500.ha_low_thread_score.md)