|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ha_low_thread_score

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This parameter is available starting with V4.0.0.</p>
</main>

## Description

`ha_low_thread_score` specifies the current number of working threads for low-priority high-availability threads.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter by using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| Type | Int |
| Default value | 0, which indicates that the default number of working threads is 2 |
| Value range | [0, 100] |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

In V4.x, tasks related to high availability (HA), such as migration replication and backup and restore, are scheduled and executed by the DagScheduler at the tenant level. To ensure efficient resource utilization, instead of differentiating parameters based on task types, three HA-related parameters are set based on task priority and importance. Each parameter corresponds to different task types:

* `ha_high_thread_score`: specifies the number of threads for high-priority, high-availability tasks such as replication, rebuild, and restore.
* `ha_mid_thread_score`: specifies the number of threads for medium-priority, high-availability tasks such as migration.
* `ha_low_thread_score`: specifies the number of threads for low-priority, high-availability tasks such as backup, backup of backups, and backup cleanup.

## Examples

Set the current number of working threads for low-priority high-availability threads to 4.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET ha_low_thread_score =4;
```

## References

* Set the current number of working threads for high-priority high-availability threads: [ha_high_thread_score](3400.ha_high_thread_score.md)
* Set the current number of working threads for medium-priority high-availability threads: [ha_mid_thread_score](3600.ha_mid_thread_score.md)