|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# log_disk_throttling_maximum_duration

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This parameter is available starting with V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`log_disk_throttling_maximum_duration` specifies the maximum available time of the log disk after log throttling is triggered.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can use the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to query this parameter.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

|      **Attribute**      |    **Description**    |
|------------------|--------------|
| Type             | Time |
| Default value               | 2h, which indicates 2 hours |
| Value range             | [1s, 3d] |
| Modifiable           | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.    |

## Considerations

Both the `log_disk_throttling_percentage` and `log_disk_throttling_maximum_duration` parameters affect log throttling.

* The smaller the value set for `log_disk_throttling_percentage`, the earlier log throttling is triggered.
* The larger the value set for `log_disk_throttling_maximum_duration`, the longer the expected duration of log throttling and the stronger the throttling.

For scenarios where the write pressure and dump speed differ significantly, you can try to set `log_disk_throttling_percentage` to a smaller value and `log_disk_throttling_maximum_duration` to a larger value. We recommend that you prioritize increasing `log_disk_throttling_maximum_duration`.

## Examples

Set the data dictionary persistence cycle of the tenant to 24H.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET log_disk_throttling_maximum_duration = '1h';
```
