|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# package_state_sync_max_size

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>For V4.3.5 BP1, this parameter is available starting with V4.3.5 BP1. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `package_state_sync_max_size` parameter specifies the maximum length of a single package state (package state management) that can be serialized.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can use the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to query this parameter.

* Modify the parameter

    The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    |    Int              |
| Default value      |  8192  |
| Value range    |      [0, 16777216]          |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

* This parameter specifies the maximum length of a single package state that can be synchronized. In an ODP deployment scenario, if the length of a package variable that needs to be synchronized exceeds the specified value, the OBServer node will synchronize a special value to ensure that ODP continues to route subsequent statements to the original node.

* In a distributed plan scenario, if a remote node constructs a package state and receives a specific value, an error will be reported. This error scenario occurs when an SQL statement contains a user-defined function (UDF) or a trigger and explicitly specifies the `parallel_enable` clause. In such cases, you can either remove the `parallel_enable` clause or increase the value of the `package_state_sync_max_size` parameter.

## Examples

Set the maximum length of a single package state (package state management) to 8193.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET package_state_sync_max_size=8193;
```
