|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# undo_retention

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>This parameter is available starting with V4.0.0. In this version, the parameter type is changed from a system variable to a parameter. </li><li>This parameter is available starting with V2.1 as a system variable. </li></ul>
  <p></p>
</main>

## Description

`undo_retention` specifies the range of multi-version data to be retained in the system. It controls the recycling of multi-version data during a dump.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter by using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and user tenants can modify this parameter.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| -------- | -------- |
| Type             | Int         |
| Default value       | 1800, in seconds       |
| Value range             | [0, 4294967295]|
| Modifiable           | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

OceanBase Database retains multiple versions of historical data rows during a dump. You can use `undo_retention` to control the range of multi-version data to be retained during a dump.

Specifically:

* If the value of `undo_retention` is `0`, multi-version data is not retained. Only the latest version of data rows is retained in the dump file.

* If the value of `undo_retention` is greater than `0`, multi-version data is retained in the dump file for the specified period of time (in seconds).

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>After multi-version data is retained in a tenant, the incremental dump files generated during major compactions are retained, but multi-version data is not stored in Major SSTables. We recommend that you do not set this parameter to a large value to avoid exceeding the limit on the number of retained SSTables. </p>
  </main>

## Examples

Set the range of multi-version data to be retained in the system to 1800s.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET undo_retention=1800;
```

## References

  [Flashback queries](../../../../600.manage/400.high-availability/600.manage-flashback-query.md)
