|description|  |
|---|---|
|keywords| |
|dir-name|Tableau|
|dir-name-en|Tableau|

# Connect to OceanBase Database in Tableau

This topic describes how to import data from a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database to Tableau Desktop.

## Prerequisites

* You have downloaded and installed Tableau Desktop.

* You have installed OceanBase Database and created a MySQL tenant.

## Procedure

### Step 1: Obtain the OceanBase Database connection string

Contact the deployment personnel or administrator of OceanBase Database to obtain the connection string. The following is a connection string example:

```
obclient -h$host -P$port -u$user_name -p$password -D$database_name
```

**The parameters are described as follows:**

* `$host`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database. It is the IP address of OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) for connection through ODP, or the IP address of an OBServer node for direct connection.
* `$port`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. For connection through ODP, the default value is `2883`, which can be customized when ODP is deployed. For direct connection, the default value is `2881`, which can be customized when OceanBase Database is deployed.
* `$database_name`: the name of the database to be accessed.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
        <h4>Notice</h4>
        <p>The user for connecting to a tenant must have the <code>CREATE</code>, <code>INSERT</code>, <code>DROP</code>, and <code>SELECT</code> privileges on the database. For more information about user privileges, see <a href="../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/200.permission-of-mysql-mode/100.permission-classification-of-mysql.md">Privilege types in MySQL mode</a>. </p>
    </main>

* `$user_name`: the tenant account. For connection through ODP, two account formats are supported: `username@tenant name#cluster name` and `cluster name:tenant name:username`. For direct connection, the `username@tenant name` format is supported.
* `$password`: the password of the account.

For more information about the connection string, see [Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient](../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/300.connect-to-an-oceanbase-tenant-by-using-obclient-of-mysql-mode.md).

**Here is an example:**

```shell
obclient -hxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -P2881 -utest_user001@mysql001 -p****** -Dtest
```

### Step 2: Connect to OceanBase Database in Tableau Desktop

1. Start Tableau Desktop and choose **More** > **MySQL** under **To a Server** in the **Connect** pane on the left.

2. In the **MySQL** dialog box, specify the following parameters based on the connection string obtained in **Step 1**.

   |Parameter|Description|
   |-----|----|
   |Server| The IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database. The value is sourced from the `-h` parameter in the connection string. |
   |Port| The port number for connecting to OceanBase Database. The value is sourced from the `-P` parameter in the connection string. |
   |Database| The name of the database to be accessed. The value is sourced from the `-D` parameter in the connection string. |
   |Username| The username of the account. The value is sourced from the `-u` parameter in the connection string. |
   |Password| The password of the account. The value is sourced from the `-p` parameter in the connection string. |

3. Click **Sign In**.

    <main id="notice" type='alert'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If this is the first time that you select <b>MySQL</b> for connection, Tableau Desktop will prompt you to install the MySQL driver before the connection. After you install the MySQL driver as prompted, proceed with the connection creation. For information about the installation procedure, see <a href="https://www.tableau.com/support/drivers?edition=pro&lang=en-us&platform=mac&cpu=64&version=2024.1&__full-version=20241.24.0308.0326#mysql">MySQL Driver Download</a>. </p>
    </main>

## What to do next

Tableau Desktop will be ready for use after the connection is created. For more information about how to use Tableau Desktop, see [Tableau Desktop documentation](https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/default.htm).
