# FAQ

1. Do I need to specify the `-l` or `--table-list` option if I have specified database tables in the column-level filter conditions?

   We recommend that you specify the `-l` or `--table-list` option so that OceanBase Change Data Capture (obcdc) can perform database table-level filtering to filter out unnecessary logs in advance.

2. How do I reduce logs generated during the runtime of oblogminer to prevent the `oblogminer.log` file from growing too large?

   You can specify the log level by using the `-L` or `--log_level` option to control the amount of logs generated during runtime. For example, set the log level to `ALL.*:WARN`.

3. Why do the `SQL_REDO` statements in the analysis result of oblogminer not match the executed DML SQL statements?

   oblogminer performs analysis based on commit logs (clogs) rather than executed DML SQL statements. Therefore, the `SQL_REDO` statements in the analysis result may differ from the executed DML SQL statements. However, they are equivalent.

   For example, oblogminer generates DELETE and INSERT operations for an UPDATE operation on the primary key column of a table.

4. Why does oblogminer fail to start and report `init cdc instance failed`?

   A common reason for a startup failure is that the start time specified by the `-s` or `--start-time` option does not meet the timestamp requirements of obcdc. If the start time is too early, oblogminer cannot start. For more information, see [FAQ](../../300.data-integrate/400.cdc/1000.faq-of-obcdc.md).
