|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# log_disk_size

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`log_disk_size` specifies the size of the log disk where redo logs are stored, namely the total space of the log disk available for the current OBServer node.

## Limitations

* Query the parameter

  In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement to query the parameter or query the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view for the parameter.

* Modify the parameter

  You can modify the parameter only in the `sys` tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| Type | Varchar |
| Default value | `0`. You must specify the unit. By default, MB is used. |
| Value range | [0M, +∞) |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.  |

## Considerations

* If you set this parameter to `0`, the log disk space is allocated based on the value of <code>log_disk_percentage</code>. For more information, see <a href="12600.log_disk_percentage.md">log_disk_percentage</a>.
* When an OBServer node is started, a specified log disk space is allocated. For example, if <code>log_disk_size</code> is set to `100G`, 100 GB of log disk space is allocated for the log file pool when the OBServer node is started for the first time.
* When you create a tenant unit on an OBServer node, sufficient log disk space is reserved for the unit. If the remaining local log disk space (total available log disk space - allocated space) is not enough, the tenant unit cannot be created.

## Examples

Set the size of the log disk where redo logs are stored to 40 GB.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET log_disk_size='40G';
```

## References

 [Modify a unit config](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/1600.resource-specification-management/200.modify-the-configuration-of-a-resource-unit.md)
