|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# resource_hard_limit

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is available starting with V2.2.50. </p>
</main>

## Description

`resource_hard_limit` specifies the overcommit percentage of CPU resources.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can use the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to query this parameter.

* Modify the parameter

  Only the `sys` tenant can modify this parameter. User tenants cannot modify this parameter.

## Attributes

|      **Attribute**      |    **Description**    |
|------------------|--------------|
| Type             | Int             |
| Default value               | 100            |
| Value range             | [100, 10000] |
| Modifiable           | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.|
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.   |

## Considerations

* Starting from V4.0.0.0, OceanBase no longer supports memory resource overselling via the `resource_hard_limit` configuration item.

* `resource_hard_limit` is used to adjust the overselling ratio of `CPU_CAPACITY` on an OBServer node. On an OBServer node, the total `MAX_CPU` of all tenant Units must not exceed the oversold CPU capacity: `CPU_CAPACITY * resource_hard_limit`.

* If `resource_hard_limit > 100` is set, after overselling takes effect, only the upper limit of the corresponding resource unit (CPU) is affected; the lower limit of the resource is not affected. However, extra caution is required when using the overselling mechanism. Ensure that workloads can utilize resources at different times to avoid system issues caused by the combination of heavy workloads and resource overselling.

## Examples

Set the overcommit percentage of CPU resources to 100.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET resource_hard_limit = 100;
```

## References

[Modify the resource specifications](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/1600.resource-specification-management/200.modify-the-configuration-of-a-resource-unit.md)
