|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# datafile_maxsize

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>For V4.2.x, this parameter is available starting with V4.2.0. </li>
  <li>For V3.x, this parameter is available starting with V3.1.5. </li></ul>
</main>

## Description

* In Shared-Nothing (SN) mode, the `datafile_maxsize` parameter specifies the maximum size to which a disk file can automatically expand.

* In Shared-Storage (SS) mode, the value of the `datafile_maxsize` parameter is not applicable. You can modify the parameter, but the modification does not take effect.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can use the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view to query this parameter.

* Modify the parameter

  Only the `sys` tenant can modify this parameter. User tenants cannot modify this parameter.

## Attributes

| Attribute | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Parameter type | Capacity |
| Default value | 0 |
| Value range | [0M, +∞) |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter. |
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately. |

## Considerations

In SN mode, the default value of `datafile_maxsize` is 0, which indicates that automatic expansion of data files is not enabled. To enable automatic expansion, set `datafile_maxsize` to a non-zero value:

* The value of `datafile_maxsize` must be greater than the current size of the data file (`datafile_size` or `datafile_disk_percentage`). If the value is less than the current size of the data file, automatic expansion will not be triggered.

* If the value of `datafile_maxsize` exceeds the maximum available disk space, the actual available disk size will be used as the maximum value.

## Examples

In SN mode, set the maximum size to which a data file can be automatically expanded to 10 GB.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET datafile_maxsize = '10G';
```

## References

* [datafile_next](4600.datafile_next.md)

* [datafile_size](4700.datafile_size.md)

* [datafile_disk_percentage](4400.datafile_disk_percentage.md)

* [Configure disk data files](../../../../700.reference/200.system-management/1000.disk-data-file-management/100.disk-data-file-dynamic-expansion.md)