|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# enable_sys_unit_standalone

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This parameter is available starting with V2.2.50. </p>
</main>

## Description

`enable_sys_unit_standalone` specifies whether to allow the system tenant unit to be deployed on a standalone server.

## Privilege requirements

* Query the parameter

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query this parameter by using the `SHOW PARAMETERS` statement or the `GV$OB_PARAMETERS` view.

* Modify the parameter

  Only the `sys` tenant can modify this parameter. User tenants cannot modify this parameter.

## Attributes

|      **Attribute**    |   **Description**   |
|------------------|--------------|
| Type             | Boolean                |
| Default value               | False                |
| Value range             | <ul><li>True: allowed</li> <li>False: not allowed</li></ul>     |
| Modifiable           | Yes. You can use the `ALTER SYSTEM SET` statement to modify the parameter.|
| Effective upon OBServer node restart | No. The setting takes effect immediately.   |

## Considerations

When this parameter is set to `True`, the following effects occur:

* When you create or add a resource pool, you must consider the system tenant unit. You cannot deploy the unit of a user tenant with the unit of the system tenant on the same server.

* The system will migrate other units that are deployed on the same server as the system tenant unit.

* When you offline or delete a server, the system will first migrate the system tenant unit, and then migrate other tenant units. Other tenant units cannot be deployed on the same server as the system tenant unit.

* During tenant group balancing, the system will filter out the server that hosts the system tenant unit from the available servers for tenant groups. The tenant group units will be evenly distributed across other servers except for the one hosting the system tenant unit.

## Examples

Set the system tenant unit to not be allowed to be deployed on a standalone server.

```shell
obclient> ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_sys_unit_standalone = False;
```
