|description|  |
|---|---|
|keywords| |
|dir-name|TablePlus|
|dir-name-en|TablePlus|

# Connect to OceanBase Database in TablePlus

TablePlus is a modern native database management tool that provides a convenient and user-friendly GUI for managing various relational databases, such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQLite. This topic takes a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database and the macOS operating system as an example to describe how to connect to OceanBase Database in TablePlus.

## Prerequisites

* You have downloaded and installed TablePlus. For more information, see the [TablePlus official website](https://tableplus.com/download).

* The IP address of the OBServer node to be connected has access to the server where TablePlus is installed.

* You have installed OceanBase Database and created a MySQL tenant.

## Procedure

### Step 1: Obtain the OceanBase Database connection string

Contact the deployment personnel or administrator of OceanBase Database to obtain the connection string. The following is a connection string example:

```
obclient -h$host -P$port -u$user_name -p$password -D$database_name
```

**The parameters are described as follows:**

* `$host`: the IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database. It is the IP address of OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) for connection through ODP, or the IP address of an OBServer node for direct connection.
* `$port`: the port for connecting to OceanBase Database. For connection through ODP, the default value is `2883`, which can be customized when ODP is deployed. For direct connection, the default value is `2881`, which can be customized when OceanBase Database is deployed.
* `$database_name`: the name of the database to be accessed.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
        <h4>Notice</h4>
        <p>The user for connecting to a tenant must have the <code>CREATE</code>, <code>INSERT</code>, <code>DROP</code>, and <code>SELECT</code> privileges on the database. For more information about user privileges, see <a href="../../600.manage/500.security-and-permissions/300.access-control/200.user-and-permission/200.permission-of-mysql-mode/100.permission-classification-of-mysql.md">Privilege types in MySQL mode</a>. </p>
    </main>

* `$user_name`: the tenant account. For connection through ODP, two account formats are supported: `username@tenant name#cluster name` and `cluster name:tenant name:username`. For direct connection, the `username@tenant name` format is supported.
* `$password`: the password of the account.

For more information about the connection string, see [Connect to an OceanBase Database tenant by using OBClient](../../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-oceanbase-database-of-mysql-mode/300.connect-to-an-oceanbase-tenant-by-using-obclient-of-mysql-mode.md).

**Here is an example:**

```shell
obclient -hxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -P2881 -utest_user001@mysql001 -p****** -Dtest
```

### Step 2: Create an OceanBase data source in TablePlus

1. Start TablePlus, right-click on the right side, and choose **New** > **Connection**.

2. In the dialog box that appears, select **MySQL** and then click **Create**.

3. In the **MySQL Connection** dialog box, specify the following parameters based on the connection string obtained in **Step 1**.

   |Parameter|Description|
   |-----|----|
   |Name| The name of the custom connection. |
   |Host/IP| The IP address for connecting to OceanBase Database. The value is sourced from the `-h` parameter in the connection string. |
   |Port| The port for connecting to OceanBase Database. The value is sourced from the `-P` parameter in the connection string. |
   |User| The username of the account for connecting to OceanBase Database, for example, `test`. The value is sourced from the `-u` parameter in the connection string. |
   |Password| The password of the account. The value is sourced from the `-p` parameter in the connection string. |
   |Database| The name of the database to be accessed. The value is sourced from the `-D` parameter in the connection string. |

5. Click **Test**. If the background colors of the input boxes turn green, the connection is successful.

6. Click **Connect**.

## What to do next

TablePlus will be ready for use after the connection is created. For more information about how to use TablePlus, see [TablePlus documentation](https://docs.tableplus.com/).
