| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode      |
|machine-translation||

# STOP_JOB

The `STOP_JOB` procedure stops a running job.

<main id="notice" >
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This topic applies only to OceanBase Database Enterprise Edition. OceanBase Database Community Edition provides only the MySQL mode. </p>
</main>

## Required privileges

You can execute the `STOP_JOB` procedure in the `sys` tenant to stop an ongoing job of other user tenants, or execute the procedure in a user tenant to stop a running job of the current tenant.

## Syntax

```sql
DBMS_SCHEDULER.STOP_JOB (
job_name              IN VARCHAR2,
force                 IN BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE);
```

## Parameters

|             Parameter            |                           Description                       |
|--------------------|------------------|
| job_name            | The name of the job. You can specify only one job name.   |
| force     | Specifies whether to forcibly stop a running job. You can set the value only to `FALSE`, which specifies not to forcibly stop a running job.  |

## Considerations

* Stopping of multiple running rounds of a job: The `STOP_JOB` procedure stops all instances of the job that are started before the point in time when the procedure is executed, as well as the corresponding sessions.
* Impact on future scheduling: `STOP_JOB` stops ongoing job instances and does not affect the future scheduling of the job. A job stopped by the procedure will still be executed as scheduled.
* Count of failures for a stopped job: If a job is stopped by the `STOP_JOB` procedure or the `kill session` command, the count of failures increases by 1. When the count of consecutive failures of a job reaches a specified number, such as 16, the job may be considered damaged by the system.
* Impact of an accumulated queue: An accumulated queue in the `sys` tenant or an Oracle tenant may delay or hinder the execution of the `STOP_JOB` procedure due to insufficient resources.

## Examples

Stop the `MYJOB` job immediately.

```sql
BEGIN
  DBMS_SCHEDULER.STOP_JOB(
    JOB_NAME            => 'MYJOB,
    force               => FALSE);
END;
```
