|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# Multi-table join statements

This topic describes the requirements and suggestions on writing multi-table join statements in OceanBase Database.

* We recommend that you use aliases in multi-table join queries and specify the aliases for referencing fields in the SELECT list. The aliases are in the database name.table name format.

  Example: `select a.cid from deposit_account.tbluser a where ...`

* We recommend that you use inner joins in multi-table join scenarios.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>OceanBase Database supports outer join syntax such as <code>LEFT JOIN</code>, <code>RIGHT JOIN</code>, and <code>FULL JOIN</code>. However, we do not recommend that you use outer joins in production environments. </p>
  </main>

* In a query that involves a multi-table join, we recommend that you select the table with the smallest result set as the driving table.

* Do not write SQL statements with nested subqueries. We recommend that you rewrite such SQL statements into statements that sequentially join tables.

* Avoid the generation of a Cartesian product during a multi-table join. A Cartesian product is generally caused by defective logic design or omission of join conditions, which can result in performance issues.

- Make sure that the same collation type is used for the two fields in the join condition. Otherwise, indexes cannot be correctly used.

- For a multi-table SQL query, we recommend that you use a common table expression (CTE) to rewrite the query.