| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |
|machine-translation||

# Triggers

Triggers are database objects that are related to tables. A trigger can fire when a row is inserted into, updated in, or deleted from a related table by using a statement. You can specify whether a trigger fires before or after a triggering event occurs.

For example, you can use the `INSERT` or `LOAD DATA` statement to insert rows. The `INSERT` trigger fires each time a row is inserted. If two rows are inserted at a time, the `INSERT` trigger fires twice. You can specify whether a trigger fires each time before a row is inserted into a table or after a row in the table is updated.

## Trigger types

The MySQL mode of OceanBase Database supports the following types of triggers:

* `INSERT`: A trigger of this type fires when you insert a row by using an `INSERT`, `LOAD DATA`, or `REPLACE` statement.

* `UPDATE`: A trigger of this type fires when you update a row by using an `UPDATE` statement.

* `DELETE`: A trigger of this type fires when you delete a row by using a `DELETE` or `REPLACE` statement.

The `INSERT INTO ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement is a special case in which a `BEFORE INSERT` trigger fires for each row, followed by an `AFTER INSERT` trigger or both the `BEFORE UPDATE` and `AFTER UPDATE` triggers, based on whether the row has a duplicate key.

## Create a trigger

You can use a `CREATE TRIGGER` statement to create a trigger.

To create a trigger, you must have the following privileges:

* Privileges on the table associated with the trigger, such as `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` privileges

* The `CREATE` privilege on triggers

* Privileges on statements to be executed after the trigger fires

The syntax is as follows:

```sql
CREATE
    TRIGGER [IF NOT EXISTS] trigger_name
    trigger_time trigger_event
    ON table_name FOR EACH ROW
    [trigger_order]
    trigger_body

trigger_time: { BEFORE | AFTER }

trigger_event: { INSERT | UPDATE | DELETE }

trigger_order: { FOLLOWS | PRECEDES } other_trigger_name
```

The syntax is described as follows:

* `IF NOT EXISTS`: If you try to create a trigger whose name already exists without using the `IF NOT EXISTS` option, an error message is returned. If you use the `IF NOT EXISTS` option, a warning message instead of an error message is returned.

* `trigger_name`: the name of the trigger, which must be unique.

* `table_name`: the name of the table for which the trigger is created.

* `BEFORE` or `AFTER`: specifies whether the trigger fires before or after the triggering event. For example, whether the trigger fires before or after each row is inserted into the associated table.

* `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE`: the triggering event, which is the type of the operation that fires the trigger.

* `FOR EACH ROW`: specifies whether a trigger is a row trigger. When a row trigger fires, statements in the trigger are executed once for each row that is affected by the triggering event.

OceanBase Database also supports `NEW.columnName` and `OLD.columnName`.

* For an `INSERT` trigger, `NEW.columnName` specifies the new data that is to be inserted in a `BEFORE` scenario or has been inserted in an `AFTER` scenario. Here, `columnName` refers to a column name in the corresponding table.

* For an `UPDATE` trigger, `OLD.columnName` specifies the original data that is to be updated or has been updated, while `NEW.columnName` specifies the new data that is to be or has been updated to.

* For a `DELETE` trigger, `OLD.columnName` specifies the original data that is to be deleted or has been deleted.

* `OLD.columnName` is read-only, whereas `NEW.columnName` can be specified by using a `SET` statement.

Example 1: Create a trigger named `test_trg`, associate it with a table named `test` to trigger an `INSERT` operation, and use the trigger as an accumulator to return the sum of column values inserted into the table.

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE test (user_id INT, user_num DECIMAL(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> CREATE TRIGGER test_trg BEFORE INSERT ON test
       FOR EACH ROW SET @sum = @sum + NEW.user_num;
Query OK, 0 rows affected
```

Example 2: Create two triggers named `trg2_t` and `trg3_t` that fire after the `trg1_t` trigger, and create a trigger named `trg4_t` trigger that fires before the `trg1_t` trigger.

```shell
CREATE TABLE t(c1 INT);
CREATE TABLE msg(c1 INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY, c2 VARCHAR(100));
CREATE TRIGGER trg1_t BEFORE INSERT ON t FOR EACH ROW
BEGIN
  INSERT INTO msg(c2) VALUES ('BEFORE INSERT trg1_t');
END;
/
CREATE TRIGGER trg2_t BEFORE INSERT ON t FOR EACH ROW FOLLOWS trg1_t
BEGIN
  INSERT INTO msg(c2) VALUES ('BEFORE INSERT trg2_t');
END;
/
CREATE TRIGGER trg3_t BEFORE INSERT ON t FOR EACH ROW FOLLOWS trg1_t
BEGIN
  INSERT INTO msg(c2) VALUES ('BEFORE INSERT trg3_t');
END;
/

CREATE TRIGGER trg4_t BEFORE INSERT ON t FOR EACH ROW PRECEDES trg1_t
BEGIN
  INSERT INTO msg(c2) VALUES ('BEFORE INSERT trg4_t');
END;
/
INSERT INTO t VALUES (1);

obclient> SELECT * FROM msg;
```

The return result is as follows:

```shell
+----+----------------------+
| c1 | c2                   |
+----+----------------------+
|  1 | BEFORE INSERT trg4_t |
|  2 | BEFORE INSERT trg1_t |
|  3 | BEFORE INSERT trg3_t |
|  4 | BEFORE INSERT trg2_t |
+----+----------------------+
4 rows in set
```

In addition, if you want to create a trigger that contains multiple statements, you can use the `BEGIN ... END` statement to specify the start and end of the entire code block.

The syntax of the `BEGIN … END` statement is as follows:

```sql
BEGIN
[statement_list]
END
```

In the preceding syntax, `statement_list` specifies a list of one or more statements to be executed. Each statement in the list must end with a semicolon (;). A semicolon (;) also indicates the end of an SQL statement. If the system detects a semicolon (;), the system determines it as the end of a statement and starts to execute the statement. In this case, an error is reported because the interpreter fails to find the `END` keyword that matches the `BEGIN` keyword during SQL execution. To prevent the error, you can use a `DELIMITER` command to change the delimiter of a statement.

Here is a sample `DELIMITER` command:

```sql
DELIMITER new_delemiter
```

Here, `new_delemiter` specifies the delimiter of a statement. A delimiter can be a sign of one or more bytes in length. The default delimiter is a semicolon (;). You can change the semicolon (;) to another delimiter, such as a number sign (#).

After the `DELIMITER` command is added to the syntax, statements with semicolons (;) following the command can be executed without an error reported. This is because the system does not consider that a statement ends until it detects the specified delimiter, such as a number sign (#).

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>If you use the <code>DELIMITER</code> command to change the delimiter, make sure that you reset the delimiter to the semicolon (;) after the statements are executed. </p>
  </main>

Here is an example:

```sql
obclient> CREATE TABLE test (user_id INT, user_num DECIMAL(10,2));
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> DELIMITER //

obclient> CREATE TRIGGER test_trg BEFORE UPDATE ON test
               FOR EACH ROW
               BEGIN
               IF NEW.user_num < 1 THEN
              SET NEW.user_num  = 1;
              ELSEIF NEW.user_num > 45 THEN
              SET NEW.user_num= 45;
             END IF;
             END //
Query OK, 0 rows affected

obclient> DELIMITER ;
```

## Limitations on triggers

Triggers in MySQL mode have the following limitations:

* You can create a trigger only for a permanent table, but not for a temporary table.

* A trigger cannot use the `CALL` statement to call a stored procedure that returns data to the client or contains a dynamic SQL statement. However, a stored procedure or function can use an `OUT` or `IN OUT` parameter to return data to a trigger.

* A statement used to start or end a transaction is not allowed in a trigger. For example, the following statements are not allowed: `START TRANSACTION`, `COMMIT`, and `ROLLBACK`. However, rolling back a transaction to a savepoint is allowed because this process does not end the transaction.

* A foreign key action cannot fire a trigger.

* A trigger cannot return a value. Make sure that the trigger does not contain a statement that is used to return values. If you want to instantly stop a trigger, use a `LEAVE` statement.

## View trigger metadata

You can perform any of the following operations to obtain the metadata of a trigger:

* Query the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA TRIGGERS` view. For more information, see [INFORMATION_SCHEMA TRIGGERS](../800.information-schema-dictionary-view-mysql/300.information-schema-triggers-mysql.md).

* Execute the `SHOW CREATE TRIGGER` statement. For more information, see [SHOW CREATE TRIGGER](../700.pl-database-management-statements-mysql/300.show-create-trigger-mysql.md).

* Execute the `SHOW TRIGGERS` statement. For more information, see [SHOW TRIGGERS](../700.pl-database-management-statements-mysql/600.show-triggers-mysql.md).
