# Throttling

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>The content of this topic applies to OceanBase Change Data Capture (obcdc) versions between V3.2.4.5 and V4.0, as well as versions later than V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

In most cases, throttling in obcdc can keep the amount of memory used by obcdc during its runtime within your expectation. You can use the `memory_limit` parameter to adjust your expected memory usage of obcdc.

obcdc has multiple internal modules, between which transaction data flows. You can understand the overall production-consumption model as multiple interconnected production-consumption models. Throttling involves memory usage control for the following two modules: the data consumption module and the log pulling module.

## Throttling for the data consumption module

If data consumption is slow, obcdc decreases the task distribution speed of the data consumption module to prevent excessive memory usage caused by substantial unconsumed data. obcdc determines the downstream consumption speed based on the task backlog of the consumption queue and the resource recycling queue. If the backlog ratio exceeds `pause_redo_dispatch_task_count_threshold / 100` and the memory usage reaches the alert threshold `memory_limit * memory_usage_warn_threshold / 100`, or if the amount of redo logs being processed reaches the specified threshold, obcdc deems the downstream consumption speed slow.

You can search the `libobcdc.log` file for the `NEED_PAUSE_REDO_DISPATCH=1` keyword to query the throttling logs of the data consumption module. The `REASON` field shows the specific reason for throttling.

## Throttling for the log pulling module

Throttling in obcdc is triggered for the log pulling module in the following cases:

- The memory usage reaches the alert threshold `memory_limit * memory_usage_warn_threshold / 100`.

- The number of active transactions in the memory exceeds the specified threshold, and throttling for the data consumption module is triggered.

- A backlog of tasks occurs in the sequence module.

- A backlog of data persistence tasks occurs.

You can search the `libobcdc.log` file for the `NEED_SLOW_DOWN=1` keyword to query the throttling logs of the log puling module. The `REASON` field shows the specific reason for throttling.

The following table describes some of the preceding parameters:

| Parameter | Default value  | Value range | Description |
|-----|-----|------|-----|
| memory_limit | 8G  | \[2G, +∞) | The expected memory usage of obcdc. |
| memory_usage_warn_threshold | 85 | \[0, 100] | The memory usage threshold for triggering throttling detection. |
| pause_redo_dispatch_task_count_threshold | 80  | \[0, 100] | The threshold of the backlog ratio of the consumption queue and the resource recycling queue for triggering throttling for the data consumption module. |

obcdc has more fine-grained throttling algorithms and parameters that automatically adapt based on the specified value of `memory_limit`. In rare cases, you may need to fine-tune these parameters listed below. However, in most cases, no adjustment is needed.

The adaptive throttling parameters of obcdc are listed below. For more information, see [obcdc parameters](200.obcdc-parameters/200.obcdc-configuration-items.md).

- redo_dispatcher_memory_limit

- extra_redo_dispatch_memory_size

- redo_dispatched_memory_limit_exceed_ratio

- part_trans_task_active_count_upper_bound

- part_trans_task_reusable_count_upper_bound

- ready_to_seq_task_upper_bound

- storager_task_count_upper_bound

- storager_mem_percentage
