|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|

# 9000 ~ 9499

This range represents backup and restore error codes as well as STORAGE 3.0 error codes.

## ERROR 9001 (HY000): URI error


* OceanBase error code: 9001

* Cause: This may be due to an incorrect destination link configured for backup and restore.

* Solution: Check the relevant backup and restore configurations and make corrections.

## ERROR 9002 (HY000): OSS file MD5 error


* OceanBase error code: 9002

* Cause: The data of the OSS file is invalid, possibly due to an error on the OSS.

* Solution: Contact OSS Technical Support to troubleshoot the issue.

## ERROR 9003 (HY000): OSS error


* OceanBase error code: 9003

* Cause: An unknown error occurred on the OSS.

* Solution: Contact OSS Technical Support to troubleshoot the issue.

<!-- For more information, see the following topics:

* [Backup to the specified path failed with the error message "OSS error"](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208059)
* [Backup restore failed, and the tenant remains in the restoring state](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000340640) -->

## ERROR 9004 (HY000): Init MD5 fail


* OceanBase error code: 9004

* Cause: An error occurred during the initialization of MD5 in OpenSSL.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9005 (HY000): Out of element


* OceanBase error code: 9005

* Cause: The sharding limit has been exceeded.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9006 (HY000): Update MD5 fail


* OceanBase error code: 9006

* Cause: Failed to update MD5.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9007 (HY000): Invalid OSS file length


* OceanBase error code: 9007

* Cause: The length of the OSS file is invalid, possibly due to an error in the file.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9010 (HY000): OSS file MD5 not match


* OceanBase error code: 9010

* Cause: The MD5 checksum of the OSS file does not match, possibly due to data anomalies on the OSS or a bug in the backup and restore program.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9011 (HY000): cannot find backup file


* OceanBase error code: 9011

* Cause: The backup file could not be found, possibly due to incorrect backup and restore configurations.

* Solution: Check the relevant backup and restore configurations and make the necessary modifications.

<!-- For more information, see the following topic:

* [Error during cross-region restore: The backup object cannot be restored to a point in time](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208064) -->

## ERROR 9012 (HY000): Can not get data version from timestamp


* OceanBase error code: 9012

* Cause: The `data version` parameter is missing in the logical restore parameters.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9013 (HY000): Write OSS file error


* OceanBase error code: 9013

* Cause: An error occurred while writing the OSS file, possibly due to an unknown issue on the OSS.

* Solution: Contact OSS Technical Support to troubleshoot the issue.

## ERROR 9014 (HY000): Another restore is in progress


* OceanBase error code: 9014

* Cause: A tenant with the same name exists for the restore tenant.

* Solution: Check if the username of the restore tenant is duplicated. If so, use a unique tenant name.

## ERROR 9016 (HY000): ob cluster name not equal


* OceanBase error code: 9016

* Cause: The cluster name and URL for logical backup are inconsistent.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9017 (HY000): invalid rs list


* OceanBase error code: 9017

* Cause: The RS list is invalid, which may indicate an error in the specified RS list.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9018 (HY000): agent has failed task


* OceanBase error code: 9018

* Cause: Logical backup has failed tasks.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9019 (HY000): restore partition is complete

* OceanBase error code: 9019

* Cause: The restored partition is repeatedly scheduled for restoration.

* Solution: No action is required.

## ERROR 9020 (HY000): restore partition twice


* OceanBase error code: 9020

* Cause: The restored partition is repeatedly scheduled for restoration.

* Solution: No action is required.

## ERROR 9022 (HY000): physical backup switch is on


* OceanBase error code: 9022

* Cause: Delayed deletion of tables during physical backup.

* Solution: No action is required. It will be automatically deleted after physical backup is completed.

## ERROR 9023 (HY000): cannot start log archive backup


* OceanBase error code: 9023

* Cause: Log archiving cannot be repeatedly enabled during log archiving.

* Solution: Avoid repeatedly scheduling the command to enable log archiving.

## ERROR 9024 (HY000): log archive backup is already disabled


* OceanBase error code: 9024

* Cause: Log archiving cannot be repeatedly disabled during the stop phase.

* Solution: Avoid repeatedly disabling log archiving that has already been disabled.

## ERROR 9025 (HY000): log archive backup info not exists


* OceanBase error code: 9025

* Cause: The file of log archiving information does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9026 (HY000): %s is not a valid uri

* OceanBase error code: 9026

* Cause: The backup destination is invalid.

* Solution: Check whether the `backup_dest` value is reasonable and provide a valid `backup_dest` path.

<!-- For more information, see:

* [Backup destination is not valid](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208058) -->

## ERROR 9027 (HY000): ob log archive interrupted


* OceanBase error code: 9027

* Cause: Log archiving is interrupted.

* Solution: Check whether excessive writes cause log archiving to be delayed. If not, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9028 (HY000): ob log archive stat not match


* OceanBase error code: 9028

* Cause: The log archiving status does not match.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9029 (HY000): log archive is not running


* OceanBase error code: 9029

* Cause: Log archiving is not running. This is usually an error message printed by the OBServer node when backup is being stopped.

* Solution: No manual intervention is required. This is a normal exit log archiving error message.

## ERROR 9030 (HY000): log archive invalid round


* OceanBase error code: 9030

* Cause: The log archiving round information is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9031 (HY000): Cannot backup ob replica


* OceanBase error code: 9031

* Cause: The replica is in the process of migration or log replication, and therefore cannot provide data backup capabilities.

* Solution: OceanBase Database will internally retry the operation. No manual intervention is required.

## ERROR 9032 (HY000): backup info not exists


* OceanBase error code: 9032

* Cause: The backup information does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance in troubleshooting.

<!-- Related issue cases:

* [Backup process runs for a long time and logs error 9032](https://www.oceanbase.com/knowledge-base/oceanbase-database-1000000000208050) -->

## ERROR 9033 (HY000): Backup meta info stored in system dictionary does not match with current system status


* OceanBase error code: 9033

* Cause: The backup status is inconsistent.

* Solution:

  * If the error is reported during log archiving on an OBServer node, it is usually caused by starting or stopping log archiving. No manual intervention is required.

  * If the error is reported in the RootService logs, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9035 (HY000): restore index failed


* OceanBase error code: 9035

* Cause: Index reconstruction failed after the restore was completed.

* Solution: Check the status of the indexes that are in the `error` state in the tenant being restored, and then recreate the indexes.

## ERROR 9036 (HY000): Backup is in progress


* OceanBase error code: 9036

* Cause: It is usually caused by executing an operation that is mutually exclusive with the backup.

* Solution: Stop the data backup and log archiving before executing the command.

## ERROR 9037 (HY000): log archive status is not valid


* OceanBase error code: 9037

* Cause: The log archiving status is invalid.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance in troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9038 (HY000): Cannot add replica during set member list in restore


* OceanBase error code: 9038

* Cause: Replication is not supported during the `set member list` phase.

* Solution: The `set member list` step in the restore process does not support replica replication. If there are still majority replicas, the restore can continue. If there are no majority replicas, cancel the restore and reschedule the restore task.

## ERROR 9039 (HY000): pg log archive leader changed


* OceanBase error code: 9039

* Cause: The leader for log archiving has changed.

* Solution: This is an internal error. After the leader change, the log archiving process for the PG is interrupted. The new leader will automatically resume backup work without requiring O&M intervention.

## ERROR 9040 (HY000): backup can not start


* OceanBase error code: 9040

* Cause: Log archiving is not in the `DOING` state, so data backup cannot be enabled.

* Solution: Wait for log archiving to enter the `DOING` state. If it remains in the `BEGINNING` state for a long time, contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9041 (HY000): cancel backup do not allow


* OceanBase error code: 9041

* Cause: Canceling the backup task is not allowed.

* Solution: Avoid canceling the backup task multiple times.

## ERROR 9042 (HY000): backup data version gap over limit


* OceanBase error code: 9042

* Cause: If data backup is not completed during more than 16 `Major Merge` operations, it will fail.

* Solution: Investigate the reasons for slow data backup or confirm whether `Major Merge` is excessively frequent.

## ERROR 9044 (HY000): delete backup data is in progress


* OceanBase error code: 9044

* Cause: It is not allowed to schedule a backup cleanup task again.

* Solution: Avoid scheduling a backup cleanup task again.

## ERROR 9045 (HY000): delete backup set do not allow


* OceanBase error code: 9045

* Cause: It is not allowed to delete a backup set.

* Solution: Check whether the delete command is correctly entered.

## ERROR 9046 (HY000): backup set id is not valid


* OceanBase error code: 9046

* Cause: The backup set ID is invalid, possibly due to an invalid `backup_set_id`.

* Solution: Check whether the `backup_set_id` is correctly entered and retry.

## ERROR 9047 (HY000): invalid password for backup


* OceanBase error code: 9047

* Cause: The password is invalid.

* Solution: Check whether the password is correctly entered and retry.

## ERROR 9048 (HY000): backup set is isolated by two log archive round


* OceanBase error code: 9048

* Cause: Data backup and log archiving are discontinuous.

* Solution: Check whether log archiving has been interrupted.

## ERROR 9049 (HY000): backup status is stopped, can not cancel


* OceanBase error code: 9049

* Cause: The backup has been stopped and cannot be canceled again.

* Solution: No additional processing is required, as the backup has been stopped.

## ERROR 9050 (HY000): no backup data to be backuped up


* OceanBase error code: 9050

* Cause: The scheduled backup task does not have data to back up.

* Solution: This error typically occurs in backup scenarios and does not require any action.

## ERROR 9051 (HY000): backup mount file is not valid


* OceanBase error code: 9051

* Cause: Some OBServer nodes are not mounted with NFS.

* Solution: Ensure that all nodes are mounted with NFS.

## ERROR 9052 (HY000): backup clean info not match


* OceanBase error code: 9052

* Cause: The backup cleanup metadata is inconsistent.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9053 (HY000): cancel delete backup do not allow


* OceanBase error code: 9053

* Cause: The `Cancel` command was issued without any cleanup tasks.

* Solution: Avoid issuing the `Cancel` command without any cleanup tasks.

## ERROR 9054 (HY000): backup clean info not exists


* OceanBase error code: 9054

* Cause: The cleanup metadata does not exist.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9057 (HY000): can not set backup region, because %s


* OceanBase error code: 9057

* Cause: The backup region cannot be modified.

* Solution: Record the error message and contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9058 (HY000): can not set backup zone, because %s


* OceanBase error code: 9058

* Cause: The backup zone cannot be modified.

* Solution: Record the error message and contact OceanBase Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9059 (HY000): backup backup has reached max backup times


* OceanBase error code: 9059

* Cause: An internal error code. This error typically occurs during internal backup scheduling when the Backup Set or Backup Piece has reached the maximum number of backup times.

* Solution: No action is required.

## ERROR 9060 (HY000): COS error


* OceanBase error code: 9060

* Cause: The module responsible for adapting Tencent Cloud COS reported an error.

* Solution: This is generally due to a logic error in the OceanBase Database adaptation for COS. Contact OceanBase Technical Support.

## ERROR 9061 (HY000): IO limit


* OceanBase error code: 9061

* Cause: This error is caused by IO limitations. Currently, only the List operation in the Tencent Cloud COS module returns this error code.

* Solution: Contact COS customer support to increase or remove the throttling for the List operation.

## ERROR 9062 (HY000): reach backup backup copy limit


* OceanBase error code: 9062

* Cause: When scheduling backups for the specified number of backup times, all backup_sets and backup_pieces have met the requirements, and no backup_set or backup_piece needs to be backed up.

* Solution: No action is required.

## ERROR 9063 (HY000): backup io is prohibited


* OceanBase error code: 9063

* Cause: The List operation for backup and restore in the COS environment is throttled.

* Solution:

  * If this error occasionally occurs, no action is required.

  * If this error frequently occurs, contact the COS customer support for the backup to increase or remove the throttling for the List operation.

## ERROR 9064 (HY000): the archive log and backup data are not continuous


* OceanBase error code: 9064

* Cause: The archived log data and original backup data are not continuous.

* Solution:

  * V2.2.X: Perform a major compaction and initiate a new data backup.

  * V3.1.X and later: Initiate a new data backup.

## ERROR 9065 (HY000): agent has suspended


* OceanBase error code: 9065

* Cause: This error is returned when a task is being performed during the suspension of the backup feature for logical backup and restore.

* Solution: This error does not affect the feature. Logical backup will be suspended, and can be resumed later.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9066 (HY000): %.*s is conflict with %.*s

* OceanBase error code: 9066

* Cause: Conflicting values exist.

* Solution: Check the conflicting values and ensure they do not conflict with other values.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.2.1. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9069 (HY000): deleting backup piece is not allowed


* OceanBase error code: 9069

* Cause: Deleting backup log shards is not allowed.

* Solution: Check if the wrong deletion command was entered.

## ERROR 9070 (HY000): can not connect to backup destination


* OceanBase error code: 9070

* Cause: There is no connectivity between the OBServer node and the backup medium, such as the NFS is not mounted or the object storage has no access permissions.

* Solution: Correctly mount the NFS or set the correct authorization information for the object storage, or open the necessary operation permissions.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9071 (HY000): no I/O operation permission at the backup destination


* OceanBase error code: 9071

* Cause: The OBServer node does not have the operation permissions on the backup medium.

* Solution: Grant the required permissions to the operation.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9072 (HY000): obesi process session conflicts


* OceanBase error code: 9072

* Cause: Session conflicts in the backup I/O independent sub-process.

* Solution: No action is required.

## ERROR 9073 (HY000): external storage OBS error


* OceanBase error code: 9073

* Cause: When the backup medium is Huawei Cloud OBS, a storage medium-level error may occur.

* Solution: Check whether Huawei Cloud OBS is connected and writes normally.

## ERROR 9074 (HY000): backup validation task skipped


* OceanBase error code: 9074

* Cause: After the tenant is deleted, the backup validation task for the tenant is skipped.

* Solution: No action is required.

## ERROR 9075 (HY000): obesi process io error


* OceanBase error code: 9075

* Cause: Backup and restore I/O failed due to an abnormal obesi process.

* Solution: No action is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V3.2.4. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9076 (HY000): backup meta index does not exist


* OceanBase error code: 9076

* Cause: The metadata index of the backup data does not exist.

* Solution: Contact Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9077 (HY000): log discontinuous between two archive rounds


* OceanBase error code: 9077

* Cause: When continuously reading the archive logs, the logs of two consecutive rounds are discontinuous and cannot be continuously read.

* Solution: Contact Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9078 (HY000): archive log is to end


* OceanBase error code: 9078

* Cause: Continuous reading of the archive logs has reached the end.

* Solution: No action is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9079 (HY000): archive log had been recycled


* OceanBase error code: 9079

* Cause: When continuously reading the archive logs, the logs have been recycled.

* Solution: Contact Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9080 (HY000): format file does not exist%s

* OceanBase error code: 9080

* Cause: The format file does not exist.
* Solution: Check whether the format file exists in the destination directory. If not, create the format file.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>Since V4.3.0, the error message has been changed from <code>the format file does not exist under the destination</code> to <code>format file does not exist%s</code>.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9081 (HY000): format file does not match%s

* OceanBase error code: 9081

* Cause: The content of the format file in the destination directory does not match the expected content.
* Solution: Ensure that the content of the format file in the destination directory matches the expected content.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>Since V4.3.0, the error message has been changed from <code>the content of the format file at the destination does not match</code> to <code>format file does not match%s</code>.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9082 (HY000): backup device out of space


* OceanBase error code: 9082

* Cause: The backup disk has insufficient storage space.

* Solution: Expand the backup storage space.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9083 (HY000): the pwrite offset of the object storage is inconsistent


* OceanBase error code: 9083

* Cause: The offset of the backup and restore append write file does not match the file length.

* Solution: No action is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9084 (HY000): the contents of pwrite are inconsistent


* OceanBase error code: 9084

* Cause: The content of the backup and restore append write file does not match the existing content of the file.

* Solution: No action is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9085 (HY000): backup major SSTable range not cover minor SSTable


* OceanBase error code: 9085

* Cause: The range of the major SSTable to be backed up does not cover the minor SSTable.

* Solution: No action is required. The backup will automatically retry.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9086 (HY000): backup advance checkpoint by flush timeout


* OceanBase error code: 9086

* Cause: The backup of the log stream position timed out.

* Solution: Contact Technical Support for troubleshooting.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9087(HY000) : observer clog is recycled before archive

* OceanBase error code: 9087
* Cause: The archive file has been recycled during consumption.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9088 (HY000) : log restore source tenant state not match, switchover to primary not allowed

* OceanBase error code: 9088
* Cause: The state of the source tenant or log stream does not match, and the current tenant cannot be switched to the primary tenant.
* Solution:
   1. Check if the states of the source tenant and target tenant match.
   2. Check if the primary-standby replication configuration is correct.
   3. Check if the source tenant's backup is complete and the target tenant's restore is correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9089 (HY000) : log restore source LS state not match, switchover to primary not allowed

* OceanBase error code: 9089
* Cause: The state of the source log stream does not match, and the current tenant cannot be switched to the primary tenant.
* Solution:
   1. Check if the states of the source log stream and target log stream match.
   2. Check if the primary-standby replication configuration is correct.
   3. Check if the source log stream's backup is complete and the target log stream's restore is correct.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9090 (HY000) : obesi process session not exist

* OceanBase error code: 9090

* Cause: The obesi process session does not exist.

* Solution: The obesi process will automatically restart and does not require manual handling.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9091 (HY000) : Already in ARCHIVELOG mode

* OceanBase error code: 9091

* Cause: Already in ARCHIVELOG mode.

* Solution: The current status indicates no action is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9092 (HY000) : Already in NOARCHIVELOG mode

* OceanBase error code: 9092

* Cause: Already in NOARCHIVELOG mode.

* Solution: The current status indicates no action is required.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9096 (HY000) : standby binary version is lower than primary data version, standby need upgrade

* OceanBase error code: 9096
* Cause: The standby database version is lower than the primary database version.
* Solution: Check the versions of the standby and primary databases and wait for the standby to be upgraded.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9097 (HY000): Primary tenant has been dropped

* OceanBase error code: 9097
* Cause: The primary tenant was dropped during primary-standby synchronization.
* Solution: Check the tenant information on the primary database to confirm whether the primary tenant exists.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9098 (HY000): Normal object in object storage (OSS, COS, etc.) cannot be appended

* OceanBase error code: 9098
* Cause: An error occurred while trying to append content to a normal object in an object storage service (such as Alibaba Cloud OSS or Tencent Cloud COS).
* Solution: Check the object storage type to ensure that it supports appending content to normal objects.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9099 (HY000): %s restore failed, %s

* OceanBase error code: 9099

* Cause: The restore operation failed.

* Solution: Check the restore configuration and parameters to ensure that they meet the requirements and expectations for the restore target.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.2.2. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9100 (HY000): No such file or directory


* OceanBase error code: 9100

* Cause: The corresponding directory or file could not be found in the storage layer. This may be due to an issue with the configured storage directory.

* Solution: Contact Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9101 (HY000): File or directory already exists


* OceanBase error code: 9101

* Cause: The corresponding file or directory already exists.

* Solution: An internal error code. Contact Technical Support for assistance.

## ERROR 9105 (HY000): S3 error

* OceanBase error code: 9105

* Cause:
  1. The specified bucket name is invalid.
  2. The endpoint of the object storage service is invalid.
  3. An unknown error occurred in S3.

* Solution:
  1. Check whether the specified bucket name is correct.
  2. Check whether the endpoint of the object storage service is correctly configured. Ensure that the endpoint is correctly configured and that the object storage service can be accessed normally.
  3. If the bucket name is correct, contact Technical Support for assistance.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9106 (HY000): Tenant snapshot \'%.*s\' does not exist

* OceanBase error code: 9106

* Cause: The specified tenant snapshot does not exist.
* Solution: Verify whether the specified tenant snapshot exists. If not, you may need to create a new snapshot or take other actions based on the actual situation.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9107 (HY000): Tenant snapshot \'%.*s\' already exists

* OceanBase error code: 9107

* Cause: The specified tenant snapshot already exists.
* Solution: Verify whether the specified tenant snapshot exists. If it does, you may need to take other actions based on the actual situation.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9108 (HY000): Tenant snapshot task timeout. %.*s

* OceanBase Database error code: 9108

* Cause: The tenant snapshot task timed out.
* Solution: Check whether the execution time of the snapshot task is excessively long and consider extending the timeout period or optimizing the task execution process.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9109 (HY000): Clone tenant timeout. %.*s

* OceanBase Database error code: 9109

* Cause: The tenant cloning process timed out.
* Solution: Check whether the execution time of the tenant cloning process is excessively long and consider extending the timeout period or optimizing the cloning process.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9110 (HY000): Tenant clone job failed", "%.*s

* OceanBase Database error code: 9110

* Cause: The tenant cloning job failed.
* Solution: Check the cause of the failure of the tenant cloning job and take appropriate action.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9111 (HY000): Tenant snapshot task failed", "%.*s

* OceanBase Database error code: 9111

* Cause: The tenant snapshot task failed.
* Solution: Check the cause of the failure of the snapshot task and take appropriate action.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9112 (HY000): Tenant snapshot lock conflict", "%s

* OceanBase Database error code: 9112

* Cause: A tenant snapshot lock conflict occurred.
* Solution: Check the specific situation of the snapshot lock conflict and consider releasing the conflicting snapshot locks or adjusting the lock usage method.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9113 (HY000): checksum type %s is not supported for the input destination

* OceanBase Database error code: 9113

* Cause: The input destination does not support the %s checksum type.
* Solution: Check the checksum type of the input destination and ensure that a supported checksum type is used.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9114 (HY000): storage destination is not valid

* OceanBase Database error code: 9114

* Cause: The object storage destination is invalid.
* Solution: Check whether the object storage destination is correctly configured and ensure that it is a valid destination. You may need to correct the object storage destination configuration.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9115 (HY000): can not connect to storage destination

* OceanBase Database error code: 9115

* Cause: The connection to the object storage destination failed.
* Solution: Check the connection configuration to the object storage destination and ensure that the network connection is normal. You may need to correct the connection configuration, access the object storage key, or fix the network connection issue.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9116 (HY000): no I/O operation permission of the object storage

* OceanBase error code: 9116

* Cause: No I/O operation permission of the object storage.
* Solution: Check the permission settings of the object storage and ensure that you have the correct I/O operation permissions. You may need to adjust the object storage permission settings or contact an administrator to obtain the appropriate permissions.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9117 (HY000): the specified s3_region does not match the endpoint

* OceanBase error code: 9117

* Cause: The `s3_region` is not specified, or the specified `s3_region` does not match the endpoint.
* Solution: Check whether the specified `s3_region` and endpoint match. Make sure that you use the correct `s3_region` and the corresponding endpoint for configuration.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9118 (HY000): object storage endpoint is invalid

* OceanBase error code: 9118

* Cause: The endpoint of the object storage is invalid.
* Solution: Check whether the endpoint of the object storage is configured correctly. Make sure that the endpoint is correctly configured and that you can access the object storage service.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.0. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9129 (HY000): object storage io error

* OceanBase error code: 9129

* Cause: An error occurs during I/O operations on the object storage. Common causes include connectivity and compatibility issues with the object storage.

* Solution: Check the connectivity to the object storage. If no connectivity issues are found, contact Technical Support for further troubleshooting.

## ERROR 9133 (HY000): Backup zone or backup idc or backup region invalid


* OceanBase error code: 9133

* Cause: The specified backup zone, IDC, or region does not exist. For example, if a cluster has only zone1 and zone2, but you set zone3 or zone4 as the backup zone, this error will be reported because zone3 and zone4 do not exist.

* Solution: Query the `DBA_OB_ZONES` view to confirm whether the specified locality exists. Correct the issue and then reconfigure the settings.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.5. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9135 (HY000): tmp file exceeds disk quota

* OceanBase error code: 9135

* Cause: The amount of data written to the temporary file exceeds the specified limit.

* Solution: Check whether the SQL statement that caused the error generated an unexpectedly large amount of data (for example, more than 500 GB of data is expected to be written to the temporary file). If the amount of data is within the expected range, you can set the `temporary_file_max_disk_size` parameter to an appropriate value.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.5 BP1. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9136 (HY000): Backup missing mview dependent tablet sstable, sstable maybe recycled


* OceanBase error code: 9136

* Cause: The multi-version major compaction SSTable is recycled during backup.

* Solution: Initiate a data backup again.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.5. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9139 (HY000): kms destination is not valid

* OceanBase error code: 9139

* Cause: Transparent encryption is enabled for the backup tenant, but the key address is not specified or the specified address is invalid during the restore.

* Solution: Specify the correct key address in the restore command or set the `@kms_encrypt_info` session variable to the correct key address before the restore.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.5 BP2 for V4.3.5. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9140 (HY000): the object is locked by worm

* OceanBase error code: 9140

* Cause: The object is in the retention period and is being deleted or modified.

* Solution: Check if the backup or archive path is configured with a retention policy and if the `enable_worm` parameter is correctly set. If the `enable_worm` parameter is correctly configured, contact OceanBase Technical Support for further assistance.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.5 BP2 for V4.3.5. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9141 (HY000): the resource has been released

* OceanBase error code: 9141

* Cause: The temporary file macroblock was unexpectedly released.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for further assistance.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.5 BP2 for V4.3.5. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9142 (HY000): the object can not be overwritten with different content

* OceanBase error code: 9142

* Cause: A file with the same name is written to the object storage configured with a retention policy, but the write operation is not idempotent.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for further assistance.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This error code was introduced in V4.3.5 BP2 for V4.3.5. </p>
</main>

## ERROR 9147 (HY000): can not access backup set file

* OceanBase error code: 9147

* Cause: During the physical recovery process, the OBServer node is unable to properly access the backup set file in the specified backup medium.

* Solution: Check the connectivity of the object storage. After confirming there are no connectivity issues, contact technical support for further assistance.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>For V4.3.5, this error code is available starting with V4.3.5 BP4.</p>
</main>

## ERROR 9200 (HY000): Extend ssblock file to smaller is not allowed


* OceanBase error code: 9200

* Cause: SSBlock files cannot be reduced in size.

* Solution: Check if the size specified by `ALTER SYSTEM SET datafile_size` is greater than the current SSBlock file size. If not, contact OceanBase Technical Support for further assistance.

## ERROR 9201 (HY000): Mark blocks timeout(5s) in auto extend process when alloc block fail


* OceanBase error code: 9201

* Cause: Macroblock marking failed after the SSBlock file was automatically expanded.

* Solution: Contact OceanBase Technical Support for further assistance.

## ERROR 9202 (HY000): Auto extend param is not ready to start extending file


* OceanBase error code: 9202

* Cause: Auto-expansion has not been started, possibly due to configuration issues, or the `datafile` preset disk resource has reached its maximum limit.

* Solution: Check if the `free_size` field in the `__all_virtual_disk_stat` table is 0. If so, the disk space is exhausted, and you need to increase the `datafile` threshold or perform disk expansion.