# obshell restore command group

This topic describes the obshell restore command group, which is used to cancel a tenant's restore task and view restore tasks. The obshell restore command group requires that an OceanBase cluster has been initialized. You can use the `-h` or `--help` option in a command to view the help information.

## obshell restore cancel

You can use this command to cancel a restore task for a tenant.

```shell
${home_path}/bin/obshell restore cancel <tenant_name> [-y]

# example
/home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell restore cancel tenant1
```

`home_path` is the installation directory of OceanBase Database, and obshell is located in the `bin` directory of the installation directory by default. `tenant_name` is the name of the tenant for which the restore task is to be canceled.

You can use the `-y` or `--yes` option to specify whether to skip the confirmation prompt. This option does not require a value.

## obshell restore show

You can use this command to view restore tasks for a tenant.

```shell
${home_path}/bin/obshell restore show <tenant_name> [-d]

# example
/home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell restore show tenant1
```

`home_path` is the installation directory of OceanBase Database, and obshell is located in the `bin` directory of the installation directory by default. `tenant_name` is the name of the tenant for which the restore tasks are to be viewed.

You can use the `-d` or `--show_detail` option to specify whether to display detailed information about restore tasks. This option does not require a value.