# obshell recyclebin command group

This topic describes the obshell recyclebin command group, which is used to manage attributes in the recycle bin of an OceanBase cluster. This command group requires that the OceanBase cluster has been initialized. You can run the command with the `-h`/`--help` option to view the help information of the command, or run the command with the `-v`/`--verbose` option to view the detailed execution process when the task fails.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>Currently, the recyclebin tenant subcommand group is the only subcommand group in this command group. </p>
</main>

## obshell recyclebin tenant purge

This command can purge a specified tenant in the recycle bin, and also clear the resource pool of the tenant.

```shell
${home_path}/bin/obshell recyclebin tenant purge {tenant_name | object_name} [-y]

# example
/home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell recyclebin tenant purge t1 -y
/home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell recyclebin tenant purge '__recycle_$_1_1720679549921648'
```

`home_path` is the installation directory of OceanBase Database, and obshell is located in the `bin` directory of the installation directory by default. `tenant_name` is the original name of the tenant to be purged, and `object_name` is the object name of the tenant in the recycle bin. You can configure either of them.

In the example, `t1` is the original name of the tenant to be purged in the recycle bin, and `__recycle_$_1_1720679549921648` is the object name of the tenant in the recycle bin.

You can use the `-y`/`--yes` option to specify whether to skip the confirmation prompt. No value is required.

## obshell recyclebin tenant flashback

This command can restore a specified tenant in the recycle bin.

```shell
${home_path}/bin/obshell recyclebin tenant flashback {tenant_name | object_name} [-n]

# example
/home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell recyclebin tenant flashback t1 -n t2
/home/admin/oceanbase/bin/obshell recyclebin tenant flashback __recycle_$_1_1720679549921648
```

`home_path` is the installation directory of OceanBase Database, and obshell is located in the `bin` directory of the installation directory by default. `tenant_name` is the original name of the tenant to be restored, and `object_name` is the object name of the tenant in the recycle bin. You can configure either of them.

In the example, `t1` is the original name of the tenant to be restored in the recycle bin, and `__recycle_$_1_1720679549921648` is the object name of the tenant in the recycle bin.

You can use the `-n`/`--new_name` option to specify the new name of the tenant after it is restored from the recycle bin. If this option is not specified, the tenant is restored with its original name.

## obshell recyclebin tenant show

This command can display a specified tenant or all tenants in the recycle bin.

```shell
${home_path}/bin/obshell recyclebin tenant show [tenant_name | object_name]

# example
obshell recyclebin tenant show t1
obshell recyclebin tenant show '__recycle_$_1_1720679549921648'
obshell recyclebin tenant show
```

`home_path` is the installation directory of OceanBase Database, and obshell is located in the `bin` directory of the installation directory by default. `tenant_name` is the original name of the tenant to be displayed, and `object_name` is the object name of the tenant in the recycle bin. You can configure either of them. If neither of them is specified, all tenants in the recycle bin are displayed.

In the example, `t1` is the original name of the tenant to be displayed in the recycle bin, and `__recycle_$_1_1720679549921648` is the object name of the tenant in the recycle bin.