| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | Oracle Mode     |
|machine-translation||

# Overview

Large objects (LOBs) store large unstructured data such as texts, images, videos, and spatial data. LOBs include binary large objects (BLOBs) and character large objects (CLOBs). This topic describes the LOB data types supported by OceanBase Database V4.3.3 and the corresponding limitations.

## LOB data types

The following table describes the LOB data types supported by OceanBase Database V4.3.3.

|  Type  | Fixed/Variable length | Maximum length of definition |    Character set    |
|------|----|----------------|-----------|
| BLOB | Variable | 536,870,910 bytes          | BINARY    |
| CLOB | Variable | 536,870,910 bytes          | Same as the character set of the tenant |

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>Unlike Oracle Database that references data by using the LOB locator, OceanBase Database stores the LOB locator in the same structure as the data. <br>Decreasing the threshold of a LOB column is an offline DDL operation. </p>
  </main>

## Limitations for using LOB columns

`LOB` columns are subject to the following limitations:

* Do not specify a `LOB` column as a primary key column.

* The following data structures are only temporary instances and cannot be stored in database tables:

  * Any `VARRAY` object of a `LOB` type

  * Any `VARRAY` object that contains a `LOB` type, such as an object type with the `LOB` attribute

  * Any `ANYDATA` object of a `LOB` type

  * Any `ANYDATA` object that contains a `LOB` type

* Do not specify a `LOB` column in the `ORDER BY` or `GROUP BY` clause in a query.

* Do not specify a `LOB` column in a join or a `SELECT...DISTINCT` or `SELECT...UNIQUE` statement.

* When you create a `AFTER UPDATE` DML trigger, do not specify a `LOB` column in an `UPDATE OF` clause.

* Do not specify a `LOB` column as a part of an index key.
