| Description   |                 |
|---------------|-----------------|
| keywords      |                 |
| dir-name      |                 |
| dir-name-en   |                 |
| tenant-type   | MySQL Mode      |

# Migrate to OceanBase Database from a vector database

OceanBase Database provides a comprehensive vector data migration solution to help you easily migrate data from existing vector databases to OceanBase Database Community Edition. At present, the following vector databases are supported.

## Migrate data from Milvus Database

You can seamlessly migrate vector collections, vectors, and their metadata from Milvus Database to OceanBase Database Community Edition. The migration process ensures data integrity and consistency, allowing smooth business transition. For more information, see [Migrate data from a Milvus database to OceanBase Database Community Edition](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-oms-en-10000000001657955).

## Migrate data from Qdrant Database

You can migrate vector collections and points, as well as payload data from Qdrant Database to OceanBase Database Community Edition. The migration tool automatically converts data formats during the migration, ensuring that the migrated data can be directly used. For more information, see [Migrate data from a Qdrant database to OceanBase Database Community Edition](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-oms-en-10000000001657958).

With the vector data migration capability of OceanBase Database, you can:

* Reduce O&M costs by unified data management.

* Leverage the high-performance vector search capability of OceanBase Database.

* Seamlessly switch or upgrade database features.
