|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Table naming conventions

This topic provides guidelines for naming tables in database operations to ensure consistent naming conventions.

## Table naming suggestions

* Table names must conform to the following naming rules in MySQL-compatible mode and Oracle-compatible mode:

   * General naming rules for OceanBase Database in MySQL-compatible mode

       * Must consist of lowercase letters, numbers, and underscores, and must start and end with a lowercase letter or number.
       * Must be at least 3 characters long (development specifications) and less than the maximum allowed length for database table names.
       * Cannot be a keyword or reserved word in OceanBase Database in MySQL-compatible mode.

       <main id="notice" type='notice'>
       <h4>Notice</h4>
       <p>The maximum length for a table name in MySQL-compatible mode of OceanBase Database is 64 characters. This may vary depending on the specific version.</p>
       </main>

   * General naming rules for OceanBase Database in Oracle-compatible mode

       * Must consist of uppercase letters, numbers, and underscores, and must start and end with an uppercase letter or number.
       * Must be at least 3 characters long (development specifications) and less than the maximum allowed length for database table names.
       * Cannot be a keyword or reserved word in OceanBase Database in Oracle-compatible mode.

       <main id="notice" type='notice'>
       <h4>Notice</h4>
       <p><ul><li>Except for the capitalization requirements, the naming rules for OceanBase Database in Oracle-compatible mode are the same as those in MySQL-compatible mode. </li><li>The maximum length for a table name in Oracle-compatible mode of OceanBase Database is 64 characters. This may vary depending on the specific version. </li></ul></p>
       </main>

* Start table names with letters.

* Use table names that well represent the data content, for example, "TEST".

* Do not start or end table names with underscores (_).

* Do not start table names with digits.

* Do not use reserved words or keywords in table names.

* Do not enclose only digits in underscores (_) in table names.

* Do not use plural forms in table names.

* Start a table name with a subsystem name or its standard abbreviation, followed by "_" and then a feature name or its standard abbreviation in the format of "business name_table feature", for example, "ACCOUNT_USER".

* Add a number that increments progressively starting from 00 at the end of a table name, for example, ACCOUNT_USER_00, ACCOUNT_USER_01, and ACCOUNT_USER_02.

* For tables partitioned by time, follow the table naming format of "general table name_time". For example, name a table partition that is of the "ACCOUNT_USER" table and that is obtained through partitioning in January 2022 as "ACCOUNT_USER_2201".

* For an intermediate table that stores intermediate result sets, follow the table naming format of "tmp_ table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)_creation time", for example, "tmp_account_tbluser_20220224".

* For a backup table that stores backups or snapshots of a source table, follow the table naming format of "bak_table name (or abbreviation)_column name (or abbreviation)_creation time", for example, "bak_account_tbluser_20220224".
