|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_org_cluster_id

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`ob_org_cluster_id` specifies the `cluster_id` for the current session of OceanBase Database. The value is persisted to the transaction log.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable of their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |      **Description**       |
|---------|-------------------|
| Type    | Int               |
| Default value     | 0. The cluster ID of the cluster is used. This ID is a unique identifier generated when the cluster is created.    |
| Value range    | \[0, 4294967295\] |
| Scope    | Session          |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Usage notes

In most cases, you do not need to set the `ob_org_cluster_id` variable. OceanBase Database uses the default value when it generates logs (clog). OMS can use the `ob_org_cluster_id` variable to filter data. For more information about the data filtering feature of OMS, see **Create a data migration project from a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database to a MySQL tenant of OceanBase Database** in the OceanBase Migration Service documentation.

For example, the OMS obcdc component sets the `cluster_id_black_list` parameter to `cluster_id_black_list=2147473648`, and the OBServer node sets the session variable to `SET ob_org_cluster_id=2147473648;` when it writes data. In this case, obcdc filters out all data whose `cluster_id` is `2147473648`.

## Examples

Set the `cluster_id` for the current session of OceanBase Database to `2147473648`.

```shell
obclient> SET ob_org_cluster_id = 2147473648;
```