# obdiag

In the native distributed database system OceanBase Database, root cause analysis for faults is complex because many factors may be involved, such as the server environment, parameters, and running load. A large amount of information must be collected and analyzed for troubleshooting. OceanBase Diagnostic Toolkit (obdiag) is designed to help you efficiently collect information scattered on various nodes. The code of obdiag is fully open sourced and available on [GitHub](https://github.com/oceanbase/oceanbase-diagnostic-tool).

## What is obdiag?

obdiag is a CLI diagnostic tool designed for OceanBase Database. It scans, collects, and analyzes information such as the logs, SQL audit records, and the process stack information of OceanBase Database. You may deploy your OceanBase cluster by using OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) or OceanBase Deployer (obd), or manually deploy it based on the OceanBase documentation. Regardless of the deployment mode, you can use obdiag to collect diagnostic information with a few clicks.

## Features

* obdiag has the following features:

  * Cluster inspection: With obdiag commands, you can inspect a cluster to detect existing or potential exceptions, analyze their causes, and obtain O&M suggestions.

  * Information collection: With obdiag commands, you can collect diagnostic information scattered across different nodes and transmit the information back to the obdiag server in a package.

  * Diagnostic analysis: With obdiag commands, you can analyze OceanBase logs to identify reported error messages and perform end-to-end tracing based on the trace.log file.

## Release notes

For the release notes of obdiag, see [Release notes](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-obdiag-en-10000000001574817).

## References

For more information about obdiag, see the [obdiag documentation](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-obdiag-en-10000000001574808).
