# Overview

As a high-performance distributed relational database, OceanBase Database provides a comprehensive ecosystem that integrates many tools to simplify database management, improve operational efficiency, and seamlessly connect to a variety of IT environments.

## Programming languages

* C: a general-purpose programming language that is widely used in the development of system software and applications. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using MySQL Connector/C](../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/200.sample-program-of-mysql-mode/300.c-of-mysql-mode/100.connect-to-the-oceanbase-database-through-mysql-connector-c-of-mysql-mode.md) and [Connect to OceanBase Database by using OceanBase Connector/C](../300.develop/200.application-development-of-oracle-mode/200.sample-program-of-oracle-mode/300.c-of-oracle-mode/200.oceanbase-connector-odbc-connection-to-oceanbase-database-sample-program.md).
* Java: a popular, object-oriented programming language that powers many applications. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using OceanBase Connector/J](../300.develop/200.application-development-of-oracle-mode/200.sample-program-of-oracle-mode/100.java-of-oracle-mode/100.oceanbase-connector-j-connection-to-oceanbase-database-sample-program.md).
* Python: a versatile, high-level programming language with easily readable syntax. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using mysqlclient](../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/200.sample-program-of-mysql-mode/200.python-of-mysql-mode/100.mysqlclient-connection-to-oceanbase-database-sample-program.md).

* PHP: a widely-used, open-source server scripting language that is designed specifically for website and server-side application development. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using the EXT driver](../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/200.sample-program-of-mysql-mode/500.php-of-mysql-mode/100.ext-driver-connects-to-oceanbase-database.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.
* Go: a statically typed, compiled programming language designed by Google. It is known for its concurrency model and high efficiency. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Go-SQL-Driver/MySQL](../300.develop/100.application-development-of-mysql-mode/200.sample-program-of-mysql-mode/400.go-of-mysql-mode/1.go-sql-driver-mysql-connection-oceanbase-sample-program.md).

## ORM frameworks

### Java

* Sprint Boot: a framework that simplifies the development of Spring Boot applications. It allows you to quickly create independent production-level Spring Boot applications. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Spring Boot](200.orms-frameworks/100.java/100.connect-to-the-oceanbase-database-through-spring-boot.md).
* Spring Batch: a framework intended for batch processing tasks. It supports large-scale data processing and provides flexible execution and monitoring mechanisms. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Spring Batch ](200.orms-frameworks/100.java/200.connect-to-the-oceanbase-database-through-spring-batch.md).
* Spring Data JDBC: an important module for simplifying database access. It provides a series of classes and APIs for simpler and more efficient interactions between Java applications and relational databases. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Spring Data JDBC](200.orms-frameworks/100.java/300.connect-to-the-oceanbase-database-through-spring-jdbc.md).
* Spring Data JPA: a persistence framework that simplifies database operations and enhances the readability of code in accordance with the JPA specifications. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Spring Data JPA](200.orms-frameworks/100.java/400.connect-to-the-oceanbase-database-through-springjpa.md).
* Hibernate: a powerful object-relational mapping (ORM) framework that automatically maps Java objects and database tables and supports complex queries and transaction management. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Hibernate](200.orms-frameworks/100.java/500.connect-to-the-oceanbase-database-through-hibernate.md).
* MyBatis: a semi-automated persistence framework that allows developers to customize SQL statements and maps the SQL statements to Java objects, contributing to high flexibility. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using MyBatis](200.orms-frameworks/100.java/600.connect-to-the-oceanbase-database-through-mybatis.md).

### Go

* **GORM**: a powerful ORM library that provides simple APIs and efficient database operations. It supports multiple types of databases and provides the migration feature. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using GORM](200.orms-frameworks/300.go/100.gorm-connection-oceanbase-database-program.md).

## Data integration

* Change Data Capture (CDC) Connectors for Apache Flink ("Flink CDC" for short): Apache Flink is an open-source framework for large-scale data processing and analysis. Flink CDC is a set of connectors for Apache Flink to capture database change events. By leveraging the capabilities offered by the framework, Flink CDC provides a powerful real-time data processing and analysis solution. For more information, see [Use Flink CDC to synchronize data from a MySQL database to OceanBase Database](../500.data-migration/200.migrate-data-from-mysql-database-to-oceanbase-database/600.use-flink-cdc-to-migrate-data-from-mysql-database-to-oceanbase-database.md) and [Use Flink CDC to migrate data from OceanBase Database to a MySQL database](../500.data-migration/300.migrate-data-from-oceanbase-database-to-mysql-database/500.use-flink-cdc-to-migrate-data-from-oceanbase-database-to-mysql-database.md).
* Canal: a CDC framework for database synchronization and integration. For more information, see [Use Canal to synchronize data from a MySQL database to OceanBase Database](../500.data-migration/200.migrate-data-from-mysql-database-to-oceanbase-database/500.use-canal-to-migrate-data-from-mysql-database-to-oceanbase-database.md) and [Use Canal to synchronize data from OceanBase Database to a MySQL database](../500.data-migration/300.migrate-data-from-oceanbase-database-to-mysql-database/300.use-canal-to-migrate-data-from-oceanbase-database-to-mysql-database.md).
* Amazon Web Services (AWS) Glue: a serverless data integration service. It helps users easily discover, prepare, move, and integrate data from multiple sources to support analytics, machine learning, and application development. AWS Glue provides comprehensive data integration capabilities, including data discovery, modern extract-transform-load (ETL), data cleansing and transformation, and centralized cataloging, all integrated into a single service. For more information, see [Migrating OceanBase Data Using AWS Glue](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/cloud-oceanbase-cloud-10000000001663322).
* data build tool (dbt): an open-source data conversion tool that can convert commands into tables or views by using SQL. For more information, see [Analyze data in OceanBase Database by using dbt](400.data-ingestion/200.dbt.md).
* Maxwell: a CDC tool for MySQL databases. For more information, see [Read data from OceanBase Database by using Maxwell](400.data-ingestion/1500.maxwell.md).
* SeaTunnel: a high-performance, distributed data integration platform for data migration and real-time streaming tasks. For more information, see [Read and synchronize data in OceanBase Database by using SeaTunnel](400.data-ingestion/1300.seatunnel.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.
* Debezium: an open-source distributed platform that monitors and captures database change events and turns them into event streams that can be used by various consumers. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Debezium and obtain data](400.data-ingestion/1600.debezium.md).

## SQL development

* Navicat: a database management and development tool that allows you to connect to multiple database systems. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Navicat](500.sql-development/400.navicat.md).
* DBeaver: a free general-purpose database management tool with a range of features. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using DBeaver](500.sql-development/300.dbeaver.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.
* DataGrip: an integrated development environment (IDE) developed by JetBrains for database management and SQL development. It can help database developers and data analysts to efficiently manage and query databases, write complex SQL queries, as well as design and maintain databases. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database in DataGrip](500.sql-development/500.Datagrip.md).
* TablePlus: a modern native database management tool that provides a convenient and user-friendly GUI for managing various relational databases, such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQLite. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database in TablePlus](500.sql-development/600.Tableplus.md).

## Orchestration

* DolphinScheduler: an open-source, distributed workflow task scheduling system that supports multiple types of tasks. For more information, see [Configure an OceanBase data source for DolphinScheduler](600.orchestration/1200.dolphinscheduler.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.

* Linkis: an open-source general-purpose computing framework for enterprises, which supports task scheduling and management of multiple computing engines. For more information, see [Integrate OceanBase Database with Linkis](600.orchestration/1400.linkis.md).

## Visualization

* Grafana: a tool for monitoring data in OceanBase Database. For more information, see [Visualize OceanBase Cloud monitoring data with Grafana](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-cloud-10000000001663877).
* Superset: an open-source business intelligence (BI) tool for data exploration and visualization. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database by using Superset](700.visualization/100.superset-mysql-connection-oceanbase-sample-program.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.
* Power BI: a BI tool developed by Microsoft that allows you to easily connect to all sorts of data sources, convert and analyze data, and create interactive visualizations and reports. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database in Power BI and obtain data](700.visualization/300.power-bi.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.
* Quick BI: a self-service data analysis and visualization tool developed by Alibaba Cloud. It allows you to further explore data with drag-and-drop operations and to create various charts and dashboards. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database in Quick BI and obtain data](700.visualization/400.quick-bi.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.
* Tableau: a tool that provides a simple UI to visualize and display a large amount of data. With powerful data processing capabilities, it enables both database beginners and experts to effectively gain data insights. For more information, see [Connect to OceanBase Database in Tableau](700.visualization/500.tableau.md). This tool is under beta testing. Preliminary testing has been completed, pending comprehensive adaptation.

## Database management

* The Database DevOps module of NineData provides powerful features such as data asset management, data query, SQL execution, data editing, data import and export, SQL approval workflow, SQL specification pre-check, approval process, and sensitive data protection. For more information, see [Manage OceanBase data sources with NineData](1000.management/100.ninedata.md).
* Bytebase: A collaborative database management tool designed to streamline workflows. For more information, see [Managing OceanBase Instances with ByteBase](1000.management/200.bytebase.md). Currently in Beta, it has completed initial testing and awaits further comprehensive adaptation.
