# ob-operator

## What is ob-operator?

OceanBase K8s Operator (ob-operator) is a tool built on the Kubernetes Operator framework for managing OceanBase clusters in Kubernetes. It provides a simple and reliable method for containerized deployment of OceanBase clusters, simplifying the O&M of OceanBase clusters. ob-operator defines various resources for OceanBase Database and implements the corresponding coordination logic. It enables you to manage OceanBase Database in a declarative manner, similar to managing native Kubernetes resources.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>Currently, ob-operator is provided only with the image for OceanBase Database Community Edition. </p>
</main>

## Features

ob-operator provides the following features:

* OceanBase cluster management

  You can manage OceanBase clusters by creating or modifying the custom resource definition (CRD) `obparameters.oceanbase.oceanbase.com`. Cluster management operations include creating, initializing, and scaling out clusters, and modifying cluster parameters.
* OceanBase tenant management

  You can manage the tenants in an OceanBase cluster by creating or modifying the CRD `obtenants.oceanbase.oceanbase.com`. Tenant management operations include creating tenants, adjusting the distribution of replicas, managing the primary and standby physical servers, and managing tenant backups.

* OceanBase high availability

  ob-operator provides the automatic fault recovery feature, which can automatically recover a cluster when the cluster fails and the majority of replicas are still available, thereby ensuring the normal operation of the cluster.

## Version

The current version of ob-operator is V2.1.0.

## References

For more information about ob-operator, see the [ob-operator documentation](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/community-ob-operator-doc-en-10000000001195649).
