|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Start a service

You can execute the `START SERVICE` statement to start an existing service.

## Limitations

You cannot execute the `START SERVICE` statement in a session created based on a service name.

## Prerequisites

* You have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege.

* The units for the tenant do not contain temporarily offline OBServer nodes. Otherwise, the temporarily offline OBServer nodes cannot provide the service specified by the service name after you execute the `START SERVICE` statement. Therefore, we recommend that you wait until the temporarily offline OBServer nodes are recovered or permanently offline before you execute the `START SERVICE` statement.

  For more information about how to query temporarily offline OBServer nodes in the units for a tenant, see **Prerequisites** in [Create a service](100.create-service.md).

## Procedure

1. Log in to a user tenant or the `sys` tenant of the cluster as the tenant administrator.

   Note that you must specify the corresponding parameters in the following sample code based on your actual database configurations.

   ```shell
   obclient -h10.xx.xx.xx -P2883 -uroot@sys#obdemo -p***** -A
   ```

2. Check whether the service to be started is in the `STARTED` state.

   For more information, see [Query the service status](200.view-service-status.md).

   If the service is not in the `STARTED` state, verify that the `SWITCHOVER_STATUS` value of the tenant is `NORMAL`, which indicates that the tenant is not in an intermediate state during primary/standby switchover. You can query the `SWITCHOVER_STATUS` value of a tenant in either of the following ways:

   * Query the `SWITCHOVER_STATUS` value of a specified tenant in the `sys` tenant.

    ```shell
    obclient [oceanbase]> SELECT TENANT_ID, TENANT_NAME, SWITCHOVER_STATUS FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS WHERE TENANT_NAME = mysql_tenant;
    ```

   * Query the `SWITCHOVER_STATUS` value of a user tenant in the current tenant.

      :::tab
      tab MySQL mode

      The query statement in MySQL mode is as follows:

      ```shell
      obclient [oceanbase]> SELECT TENANT_ID, TENANT_NAME, SWITCHOVER_STATUS FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANTS;
      ```

      tab Oracle mode

      The query statement in Oracle mode is as follows:

      ```shell
      obclient [SYS]> SELECT TENANT_ID, TENANT_NAME, SWITCHOVER_STATUS FROM SYS.DBA_OB_TENANTS;
      ```

      :::

3. Start the service.

   Here is an example:

   ```sql
   ALTER SYSTEM START SERVICE service_name [TENANT [=] tenant_name];
   ```

   The parameters are described as follows:

   * `service_name`: the name of the service to be started.
   * `TENANT [=] tenant_name`: the name of the tenant for which you want to start the service. This parameter is valid only in the `sys` tenant.

   Here are some examples:

   * Start a service named `s_hz` for a tenant named `mysql_tenant` in the `sys` tenant.

      ```shell
      obclient [oceanbase]> ALTER SYSTEM START SERVICE s_hz TENANT = mysql_tenant;
      ```

   * Start a service named `s_hz` in a user tenant.

      ```shell
      obclient > ALTER SYSTEM START SERVICE s_hz;
      ```

   If `Query OK` is returned, you can connect to all OBServer nodes except the permanently offline ones in the units for the tenant by specifying the service name. If `OB_SERVICE_NOT_FULLY_STARTED` is returned, you can connect to only some of OBServer nodes except the permanently offline ones in the units for the tenant by specifying the service name. You can query the connectable OBServer nodes from the [CDB_OB_TENANT_EVENT_HISTORY](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/11400.o-cdb_ob_tenant_event_history-of-sys-tenant.md) view in the `sys` tenant or the [DBA_OB_TENANT_EVENT_HISTORY (MySQL mode)](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-mysql-mode/12200.o-dba_ob_tenant_event_history-of-mysql-mode.md) or [DBA_OB_TENANT_EVENT_HISTORY (Oracle mode)](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/500.system-view-of-oracle-mode/200.dictionary-view-of-oracle-mode/16100.dba_ob_tenant_event_history-of-oracle-mode.md) view in a user tenant.

## References

* [Query the service status](200.view-service-status.md)
* [Stop a service](400.stop-service.md)
* [Delete a service](500.delete-service.md)