|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||

# Deploy the Java SDK environment for OceanBase Database

OceanBase Database now supports using the JAVA SDK to connect to file systems, allowing you to use external data sources for external tables. This feature is based on the Java Native Interface (JNI) framework, so you need to set up a JAVA SDK environment on the server where OceanBase Database is running.

## Environment preparation

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>If you want to use HDFS or ODPS external tables and your OceanBase Database is deployed across multiple servers (distributed deployment), you must set up the JAVA environment and install the required dependencies on every server node—not just one.</p>
</main>

### Set up the Java environment

1. Download the OpenJDK installation package from the [download page](https://www.openlogic.com/openjdk-downloads).

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>Use the latest version of OpenJDK 8. </p>
    </main>

    For example, to download OpenJDK 8u422-b05, run:

    ```shell
    [root@xxx /home/admin/rpm]# wget https://builds.openlogic.com/downloadJDK/openlogic-openjdk/8u422-b05/openlogic-openjdk-8u422-b05-linux-x64.tar.gz
    ```

2. Decompress the installation package.

    Here is an example:

    ```shell
    [root@xxx /home/admin/rpm]# tar -zxvf openlogic-openjdk-8u422-b05-linux-x64.tar.gz
    ```

    ```shell
    [root@xxx /home/admin/rpm]# ls openlogic-openjdk-8u422-b05-linux-x64
    ASSEMBLY_EXCEPTION  LICENSE  THIRD_PARTY_README  bin  demo  include  jre  lib  man  release  sample  src.zip
    ```

    The installation path is as follows:

    ```shell
    /home/admin/rpm/openlogic-openjdk-8u422-b05-linux-x64
    ```

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>This path is used to configure the java home directory of the OBServer running node, which corresponds to the value of the ob_java_home parameter. </p>
    </main>

### Install dependencies

To use HDFS or ODPS external tables with OceanBase Database, you also need to install the following packages:

* devdeps-hdfs-sdk RPM package:

  This package contains the dynamic libraries needed to run HDFS/ODPS external tables. It provides the core interface for communication between the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and JNI. It acts as a bridge between the JVM and the local external table JAVA SDK, ensuring stable operation.

* devdeps-java-extensions RPM package:

  This package integrates core dependency libraries (JAR files) required for HDFS external tables and other external data sources like ODPS. The extension package includes a complete Java runtime dependency chain, ensuring compatibility and performance optimization of the external table feature in distributed scenarios.

#### Deploy the HDFS.so dynamic library

1. Download the devdeps-hdfs-sdk RPM package.

    * For Enterprise Edition users, please contact technical support to obtain the devdeps-hdfs-sdk RPM package.
    * For Community Edition users, visit the [OceanBase Image](https://mirrors.aliyun.com/oceanbase/) page, click the `development-kit/` directory to go to the development tool resource directory, and download the devdeps-hdfs-sdk RPM package.

2. Run the following command to install the package.

    ```shell
    sudo rpm -Uvh devdeps-hdfs-sdk-3.3.6-xxxxx.xxx.xxx.rpm
    ```

    Here is an example:

    ```shell
    sudo rpm -Uvh devdeps-hdfs-sdk-3.3.6-112024123116.el7.x86_64.rpm
    ```

3. Check whether the installation is successful.

    The `libhdfs.so` and `libhdfs.so.0.0.0` files must exist, and the soft link must be set up correctly.

    Here is an example:

    ```shell
    $ll /usr/local/oceanbase/deps/devel/lib
    total 376
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root     16 Dec 24 19:49 libhdfs.so -> libhdfs.so.0.0.0
    -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 384632 Dec 24 19:09 libhdfs.so.0.0.0
    ```

#### Configure the JAR package path

1. Obtain the devdeps-java-extensions RPM installation package.

    * For Enterprise Edition users, please contact technical support to obtain the devdeps-java-extensions RPM package.
    * For Community Edition users, visit the [OceanBase Image](https://mirrors.aliyun.com/oceanbase/) page, click the `development-kit/` directory to go to the development tool resource directory, and download the devdeps-java-extensions RPM package.

      <main id="notice" type='notice'>
        <h4>Notice</h4>
        <p><ul>
          <li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.5 BP1 and earlier: Download the devdeps-java-extensions RPM installation package of V1.0.0.</li>
          <li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.5 BP2 and later: Download the devdeps-java-extensions RPM installation package of V1.0.1.</li>
          <li>For OceanBase Database V4.4.0: Download the devdeps-java-extensions RPM installation package of V1.0.1.</li></ul></p>
      </main>

2. Install the package by using the following command.

    ```shell
    sudo rpm -Uvh devdeps-java-extensions-x.x.x-xxxxxxxxxxxx.xxx.xxxxxx.rpm
    ```

    Here is an example:

    ```shell
    sudo rpm -Uvh devdeps-java-extensions-1.0.0-122025032514.el7.x86_64.rpm
    ```

3. Check whether the installation is successful.

    Check whether the `oceanbase-odps-connector-jar-with-dependencies.jar` file exists in the directory `/home/admin/oceanbase/jni_packages/v1.0.0`.

    Here is an example:

    ```shell
    $ll /home/admin/oceanbase/jni_packages/v1.0.0
    total 52756
    drwxr-sr-x 4 root root     4096 Dec 24 20:25 hadoop
    drwxr-xr-x 3 root root     4096 Dec 24 20:25 lib
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 54008720 Dec 24 19:52 oceanbase-odps-connector-jar-with-dependencies.jar
    ```

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>The path is used to configure the path of the executable dependency JAR package that can be loaded by the JVM started in OBServer. This path corresponds to the value of the ob_java_connector_path parameter. </p>
    </main>

## (Optional) Restart the observer process

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p><ul><li>If you are using the JAVA SDK for the first time, you do not need to restart the observer process. </li><li>Due to the limitations in flexible and timely setting and activation of JNI-related configurations supported by the current OBServer, changing the configurations of the Java environment variables requires a restart of the observer process for the changes to take effect. </li></ul></p>
</main>

When using the HDFS/ODPS external table feature, you need to configure the OBServer server accordingly. The configuration steps are as follows.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>All the following configurations are cluster-level settings. You need to configure them only once, without the need to set them on each node individually. </p>
</main>

### Step 1: Set the relevant parameters for starting the Java environment

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>All the following settings are performed in the sys tenant. </p>
</main>

1. Enable the Java environment for the Java SDK to access the external table.

    **Here is an example:**

    ```sql
    ALTER SYSTEM SET ob_enable_java_env = true;
    ```

    <!-- For more information about this setting, see [ob_enable_java_env]. -->

2. Set the Java home directory on the OBServer node where the OBServer runs.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>This path is from the OpenJDK installation path. </p>
    </main>

    **Here is an example:**

    ```sql
    ALTER SYSTEM SET ob_java_home = "/home/admin/rpm/openlogic-openjdk-8u422-b05-linux-x64";
    ```

    <!-- For more information about this setting, see [ob_java_home]. -->

3. Set the path of the executable dependency JAR file that the JVM of the OBServer can load.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>This path is from the RPM installation path of the JAR file. </p>
    </main>

    **Here is an example:**

    ```sql
    ALTER SYSTEM SET ob_java_connector_path = "/home/admin/oceanbase/jni_packages/v1.0.0";
    ```

    <!-- For more information about this setting, see [ob_java_connector_path]. -->

4. Set the relevant parameters for starting the Java environment.

   1. Create the corresponding log folder.

       ```shell
       mkdir -p /home/user/jvmlogs
       mkdir -p /home/user/jvmlogs/heapdumps
       ```

   2. Set the JVM startup parameters for running Java.

       **Here is an example:**

       ```sql
       ALTER SYSTEM SET ob_java_opts = "-Djdk.lang.processReaperUseDefaultStackSize=true -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -Xmx2048m -Xms2048m -Xloggc:/home/user/jvmlogs/gc.log -XX:+PrintGCDetails -XX:+PrintGCDateStamps -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:HeapDumpPath=/home/user/jvmlogs/heapdumps/ -XX:+UseGCLogFileRotation -XX:NumberOfGCLogFiles=10 -XX:GCLogFileSize=100M -XX:+UseG1GC  -XX:-CriticalJNINatives";
       ```

       <!-- For more information about this setting, see [ob_java_opts]. -->

       <main id="notice" type='notice'>
         <h4>Notice</h4>
         <p><ul><li>After this parameter is modified, you must restart the OBServer process. In the current HDFS integration, the memory copy is performed by directly copying the HDFS data stream to the C++ memory heap. You can appropriately reduce the values of <code>-Xmx2048m -Xms2048m</code>. </li><li>GC logs are generated only when the configuration folder path exists. If the path does not exist, the GC logs will not be generated. </li></ul></p>
       </main>

5. (Optional) Set the ODPS parameters for using the Java SDK.

    <main id="notice" type='notice'>
      <h4>Notice</h4>
      <p>The HDFS Java SDK does not require this parameter to be set. The other parameters are the same. </p>
    </main>

    To use the Java SDK, you must set <code>_use_odps_jni_connector</code> to <code>true</code>.

    ```sql
    ALTER SYSTEM SET _use_odps_jni_connector = true;
    ```

### Step 2: Set the available LD_LIBRARY_PATH

The JNI SDK for OceanBase Database is implemented as an extension feature using a dynamic library loading mechanism. To ensure this functionality is available, you need to configure the dynamic library search path (that is, set the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable) on all OBServer nodes. This configuration must be applied to every relevant OBServer node for the feature to work properly.

**Here is an example:**

```shell
$ vim ~/.bashrc
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/admin/rpm/openlogic-openjdk-8u422-b05-linux-x64/jre/lib/amd64/server:/usr/local/oceanbase/deps/devel/lib

$ source ~/.bashrc
```

### Step 3: Restart the observer process

Stop the observer process on all servers and then restart it.

1. Switch to the `admin` user.

    ```shell
    [root@xxx /home/admin/oceanbase/etc]# su - admin
    ```

2. Stop the observer process.

    ```shell
    -bash-4.2$ kill -9 `pidof observer`
    ```

3. Restart the observer process.

    ```shell
    -bash-4.2$ cd /home/admin/oceanbase && /home/admin/oceanbase/bin/observer
    ```

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>When restarting the observer process, you do not need to specify the startup parameters again, as the parameters from the previous startup have been written to the parameter file.</p>
    </main>

## References

For more information about how to create an ODPS external table, see [Create an external table (MySQL-compatible mode)](../../700.reference/300.database-object-management/100.manage-object-of-mysql-mode/200.manage-tables-of-mysql-mode/1000.manage-external-tables-of-mysql-mode/200.create-a-external-table-of-mysql-mode.md) or [Create an external table (Oracle-compatible mode)](../../700.reference/300.database-object-management/200.manage-object-of-oracle-mode/100.manage-tables-of-oracle-mode/1000.manage-external-tables-of-oracle-mode/200.create-a-external-table-of-oracle-mode.md).