|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# optimizer_features_enable

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`optimizer_features_enable` specifies the OceanBase Database version for which the optimizer features are enabled.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    | Varchar |
| Default value     | 4.3.5.5 |
| Value range    | The version number of the OceanBase Database instance, such as '4.0.0.0'. |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Examples

Enable the optimizer features of the `V4.3.5.5` version.

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL optimizer_features_enable='4.3.5.5';
  ```

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET optimizer_features_enable='4.3.5.5';
  ```
