|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# character_set_filesystem

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`character_set_filesystem` specifies the character set of the file system.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * A MySQL user tenant must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * An Oracle user tenant must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    | String       |
| Default value      | BINARY                  |
| Value range    | BINARY                  |
| Scope    |  <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |
| Nullable | Yes          |

## Examples

Set the character set of the file system to BINARY.

* Global level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET GLOBAL character_set_filesystem ='BINARY';
   ```

* Session level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET character_set_filesystem ='BINARY';
   ```
