|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# parallel_degree_limit

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V4.2.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`parallel_degree_limit` specifies the maximum degree of parallelism allowed when the Auto DOP strategy is used.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a Session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can modify the value of a Session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    | Uint |
| Default value      | 0 <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>0 indicates that the degree of parallelism is not limited. </p></main>|
| Value range    | [0, 9223372036854775807], where the unit is the degree of parallelism. |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Examples

Set the maximum degree of parallelism allowed when the Auto DOP strategy is used to 256.

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL parallel_degree_limit=256;
  ```

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET parallel_degree_limit=256;
  ```
