|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# plsql_ccflags

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.0.0 CE. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `plsql_ccflags` variable controls conditional compilation.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable applies only to OceanBase Database in Oracle mode. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query a variable

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) and `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) and `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify a variable

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * For V4.x, Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable starting from V4.2.0.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in the current tenant.

## Attributes

| Attribute | Description |
|---------|---------|
| Type | varchar |
| Default value | N/A |
| Value range | A string that conforms to the PL Compiler specification |
| Scope | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul> |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can modify this variable by using the `SET` statement. |

## Considerations

The format of the `plsql_ccflags` variable is `plsql_ccflags= '<v1>:<c1>,<v2>:<c2>,...,<vn>:<cn>'`, where

* vi is a PL/SQL identifier that is case-insensitive and can be a reserved keyword.
* ci is the value of vi, which can be a Boolean, pls_integer, or NULL value. The value is case-insensitive.

## Examples

The following examples set the conditional compilation identifiers and their corresponding values as follows: `v_t` corresponds to `true`, `v_f` corresponds to `false`, and `v_1` corresponds to 6. If `v_f` is not `null`, the `DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE` statement is executed to output information.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> ALTER SESSION SET plsql_ccflags = 'v_t:true,v_f:false,v_1:6';

  create or replace function my_func return number is
  begin
  $if $$v_f is not null $then
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('$$PLSQL_UNIT = ' || $$PLSQL_UNIT);
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('$$PLSQL_UNIT_OWNER = ' || $$PLSQL_UNIT_OWNER);
  $end
  return 200;
  end;
  /
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL plsql_ccflags = 'v_t:true,v_f:false,v_1:6';

  create or replace function my_func return number is
  begin
  $if $$v_f is not null $then
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('$$PLSQL_UNIT = ' || $$PLSQL_UNIT);
  DBMS_OUTPUT.PUT_LINE('$$PLSQL_UNIT_OWNER = ' || $$PLSQL_UNIT_OWNER);
  $end
  return 200;
  end;
  /
  ```

## References

[CREATE TYPE](../../../600.pl-reference/300.pl-oracle/1100.ddl-operations-on-stored-pl-units-oracle/1200.create-type-oracle.md)