|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# resource_manager_plan

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This variable is available starting with V2.2.77. </p>
</main>

## Description

`resource_manager_plan` specifies the resource management plan to activate. Different plans use different CPU quotas to limit the resources of users in the resource group.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the values of Global system variables.

* Modify variables

  * `sys` tenants can directly modify the values of Global system variables.

  * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of Global system variables.

  * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of Global system variables.

## Attributes

|   Attribute   |      Description       |
|--------|---------------|
| Parameter type   | Varchar       |
| Default value    | ""            |
| Scope    | Global        |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |
| Effective after restart | No. The setting takes effect within 10 seconds. |

## Considerations

By default, threads in a tenant, including ordinary threads and parallel execution threads, will compete for CPU resources. By specifying a resource isolation plan for the tenant, you can control the resource contention strategy and limit the resource usage.

## Examples

Specify the `daytime` resource management plan for the tenant.

```shell
obclient> SET GLOBAL resource_manager_plan = 'daytime';
```

## References

* [Configure resource isolation within a tenant (MySQL mode)](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/300.resource-isolation/300.resource-isolation-of-mysql-mode/200.resource-isolation-at-user-level-of-mysql-mode.md)
* [Configure resource isolation within a tenant (Oracle mode)](../../../../600.manage/200.tenant-management/600.common-tenant-operations/300.resource-isolation/200.resource-isolation-of-oracle-mode/200.resource-isolation-at-user-level-of-oracle-mode.md)