|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# sql_select_limit

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is supported only in MySQL mode since V4.2.0 GA. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `sql_select_limit` variable specifies the maximum number of rows returned by a SELECT statement. If a SELECT statement contains a LIMIT clause, the value of the LIMIT clause has higher priority than that of the `sql_select_limit` variable. By default, the number of rows returned by a SELECT statement is not limited.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenants.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |                                                   **Description**                                                   |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type    | int                     |
| Default value     | 9223372036854775807     |
| Value range    | \[0, 9223372036854775807\]                                                                                 |
| Effect scope    | <li> GLOBAL   <li> SESSION    |
| Modifiable  | Yes. The value can be modified by using the `SET` statement. |