|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# sql_throttle_current_priority

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with in V2.2.77. </p>
</main>

## Description

`sql_throttle_current_priority` is used to set the throttling priority. Only requests from sessions where `sql_throttle_current_priority` is less than `sql_throttle_priority` will be throttled.

## Required privileges

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (Oracle-compatible mode) and `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (MySQL-compatible mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (Oracle-compatible mode) and `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (MySQL-compatible mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * For V4.x, Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable starting from V4.2.0.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |                                                   **Description**                                                   |
|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Parameter type | Int                     |
| Default value  | 100                     |
| Value range    | No specific range. Recommended value is 100. |
| Scope          | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>   |
| Modifiable     | Yes. You can modifiy it using the `SET` statement. |

## Sample query

Set the throttling priority for session requests to 100.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET sql_throttle_current_priority= 100;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL sql_throttle_current_priority= 100;
  ```