|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
 |machine-translation||

# SQL_TRANSPILER

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V4.3.5 BP5. </p>
</main>

## Description

`SQL_TRANSPILER` specifies whether to enable the SQL Transpiler feature. If this feature is enabled, PL/SQL functions that meet the conditions will be automatically rewritten into SQL expressions without requiring user intervention.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the values of session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the values of global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can directly modify the values of session system variables in their own tenants.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    |    Enum              |
| Default value      |  OFF  |
| Value range    |       <ul><li>OFF: disabled</li><li>ON: enabled</li><li>BASIC: enabled</li>         |
| Scope    |  <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Optional usage

## Examples

* Enable the SQL Transpiler feature at the session level.

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL SQL_TRANSPILER='ON';
  ```

* Disable the SQL Transpiler feature at the global level.

  ```shell
  obclient>  SET GLOBAL SQL_TRANSPILER='OFF';
  ```