|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# sql_warnings

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with in V2.1. </p>
</main>

## Description

`sql_warnings` is used to control whether an information string is generated when a warning occurs during a single-row INSERT statement.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (Oracle-compatible mode) or `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (Oracle-compatible mode) or `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * For V4.x, starting from V4.2.0, Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in the current tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |                                                        **Description**                                                         |
|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Parameter type   | Bool                               |
| Default value    | OFF                                |
| Valid values   | <li> `ON`: Generate an information string.   <li> `OFF`: Do not generate an information string.    |
| Scope   | <li> GLOBAL   <li> SESSION               |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can modify this variable by using the `SET` statement. |

## Examples

Set single-row INSERT statements to not generate an information string when a warning occurs.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET sql_warnings= OFF;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL sql_warnings= OFF;
  ```
