|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# time_zone

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `time_zone` variable specifies the time zone for the current session of a tenant. Valid values are in the `'+08:00'` offset format or the `Asia/Shanghai` region format.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a session variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL-compatible tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * For V4.x, starting from V4.2.0, Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |**Description**       |
|---------|-----------------|
| Parameter type | Varchar                 |
| Default value     | +8:00                   |
| Value range    | -12:59 \~ +13:00        |
| Scope | <ul><li> Global   </li><li> Session </li></ul> |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can use the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Examples

Set the time zone used by the current tenant session to `+08:00`.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET time_zone='+08:00';
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL time_zone='+08:00';
  ```