|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# transaction_isolation

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with in V2.2.77. </p>
</main>

## Description

`transaction_isolation` is used to set the transaction isolation level. It works the same as the system variable `tx_isolation`. Setting either one is sufficient.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a session variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL-compatible tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle-compatible tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session variables

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their respective tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |                            **Description**                            |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Parameter type    | Varchar                                                      |
| Default value     | READ-COMMITTED                                               |
| Valid values    | <ul><li>`READ-COMMITTED`: read committed </li> <li> `REPEATABLE-READ`: repeatable read </li> <li>`SERIALIZABLE`: serializable</li></ul>    |
| Effective scope    | <ul><li> Global </li><li> Session </li></ul>   |
| Modifiable    | Yes. You can modify this variable by using the `SET` statement. |

## Examples

Set the isolation level of a transaction to `READ-COMMITTED`.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET transaction_isolation = 'READ-COMMITTED';
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL transaction_isolation = 'READ-COMMITTED';
  ```

## References

For more information about transaction isolation levels, see [Overview of transaction isolation levels](../../../100.oceanbase-database-concepts/800.transaction-management/200.transaction-concurrency-and-consistency/400.transaction-isolation-level/100.transaction-isolation-level-overview.md).
