|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# transaction_read_only

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with in V2.2.77. </p>
</main>

## Description

`transaction_read_only` specifies whether to allow only read-only transactions.

## Privileges requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a session variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL-compatible tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle-compatible tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session variables

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their respective tenant.

## Attributes

|   Attribute    |                                                     Description                                                     |
|---------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Parameter type    | Bool                    |
| Default value     | False                   |
| Valid values    | <ul><li> True/ON: Only read-only transactions are allowed to be opened. </li>  <li> False/OFF: Non-read-only transactions are allowed to be opened. </li></ul>       |
| Scope    | <ul><li> Global </li><li> Session </li></ul>   |
| Modifiable    | Yes. You can modify this variable by using the `SET` statement.|

## Considerations

When `transaction_read_only` is set to `True`, DML statements cannot be executed.

## Examples

Configure the system variable to allow the opening of non-read-only transactions.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET transaction_read_only = False;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL transaction_read_only = False;
  ```