|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# tx_read_only

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with in V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `tx_read_only` variable specifies whether a transaction is read-only.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a session variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL-compatible tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle-compatible tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session variables

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their respective tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |       **Description**                          |
|---------|-------------------------------------------|
| Parameter type    | Int                      |
| Default value     | 0                        |
| Valid values    | <ul><li>`1`: read-only transaction </li> <li> `0`: non-read-only transaction</li></ul>     |
| Effective scope    | <ul><li>Global</li> <li>Session </li></ul>      |
| Modifiable    | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Considerations

After you set the `tx_read_only` variable, the setting takes effect as follows:

* If the setting takes effect at the session level, it affects only the current user and does not affect other users.

* If the setting takes effect at the global level, it affects all users who establish new connections.

## Examples

Set a transaction to be read-only.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET tx_read_only = 1;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL tx_read_only = 1;
  ```
