|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# wait_timeout

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with in V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`wait_timeout` specifies the number of seconds that the server waits for activity before closing a noninteractive connection.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL-compatible mode) to query the value of a session variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL-compatible tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle-compatible tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session variables

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their respective tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |                                                   **Description**                                                   |
|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Parameter type   | int                     |
| Default value    | 28800                   |
| Value range   | [1, 31536000]         |
| Effective scope   | <li> GLOBAL   <li> SESSION    |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can modify the value by using the `SET` statement.|

## Considerations

When a session starts, the system initializes the session `wait_timeout` value based on the global `wait_timeout` value or the global `interactive_timeout` value. The choice between the two depends on the client type. The client type is defined by the `CLIENT_INTERACTIVE` connection option in the `mysql_real_connect()` function. For more information about the `interactive_timeout` variable, see [interactive_timeout](../300.global-system-variable/3300.interactive_timeout-global.md).

## Examples

Set the wait time before the server closes a non-interactive connection to 1800 seconds, that is, 30 minutes.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET wait_timeout =1800;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL wait_timeout =1800;
  ```

## References

If you need to set the number of seconds the server waits before closing an interactive connection, see [interactive_timeout](../300.global-system-variable/3300.interactive_timeout-global.md).
