|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# collation_database

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4 and is only used for compatibility with MySQL. While you can query and set it, the related features are not supported. Changing the value has no effect and does not produce an error. </p>
</main>

## Description

`collation_database` specifies the default character set and collation for the database.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable applies only to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode.</p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global variables

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the values of Global system variables.

  * Session variables

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the values of Session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the values of Global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants can modify the values of Global system variables only if they have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can directly modify the values of Session system variables of their own tenants.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |    **Description**   |
|----------|---------------|
| Type    |  String       |
| Default value      | utf8mb4_general_ci     |
| Value range    | <li> utf8mb4_general_ci   <li> utf8mb4_bin   <li> utf8mb4_unicode_ci   <li> gbk_bin   <li> gbk_chinese_ci   <li> gb18030_bin   <li> gb18030_chinese_ci   <li> utf16_general_ci   <li> utf16_bin   <li> utf16_unicode_ci   <li> binary    |
| Scope    | <li> Global   <li> Session   |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` or `ALTER SESSION SET` statement to modify the value. |
| Nullable  | Yes         |

## Examples

Specify the default character set and collation for the database as `utf8mb4_general_ci`.

* Global level

    ```shell
    obclient> SET GLOBAL collation_database='utf8mb4_general_ci';
    ```

* Session level

    ```shell
    obclient> SET collation_database='utf8mb4_general_ci';
    ```
