|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# cte_max_recursion_depth

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V4.1.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

`cte_max_recursion_depth` specifies the maximum recursion depth of a common table expression (CTE). The server terminates the execution of any CTE that exceeds this value.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable is applicable only to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </p>
</main>

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>Supported only in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    | Uint                                      |
| Default value      | 1000                                      |
| Value range    | [0, 4294967295]                         |
| Scope    |  <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |
| Nullable | Yes          |

## Examples

Set the maximum recursion depth of a common table expression (CTE) to 1000.

* Global level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET GLOBAL cte_max_recursion_depth = 1000;
   ```

* Session level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET cte_max_recursion_depth =1000;
   ```
