|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# error_on_overlap_time

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`error_on_overlap_time` specifies whether to return an error when ambiguous time zones occur in the overlap period of daylight saving time.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query the value of Global system variables by using the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) and the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode).

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query the value of Session system variables by using the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) and the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode).

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of Global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of Global system variables.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of Global system variables.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of Session system variables.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type     | Bool                           |
| Default value       | OFF                            |
| Value range     | <ul><li>ON: Return an error when ambiguous time zones occur in the overlap period of daylight saving time.</li><li>OFF: Do not return an error when ambiguous time zones occur in the overlap period of daylight saving time.</li></ul>     |
| Scope     | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>   |
| Modifiable   | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Examples

Do not return an error when ambiguous time zones occur in the overlap period of daylight saving time.

* Global level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET GLOBAL error_on_overlap_time =OFF;
   ```

* Session level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET error_on_overlap_time =OFF;
   ```
