|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# explicit_defaults_for_timestamp

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`explicit_defaults_for_timestamp` specifies whether to enable nonstandard behavior when handling default values and null values for the timestamp data type.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable applies only to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of Global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of Session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the values of Global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of Global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can directly modify the values of Session system variables for their own tenants.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type     | Boolean                           |
| Default value       | ON                            |
| Value range     | <ul><li>OFF: Disable</li><li>ON: Enable</li></ul>     |
| Scope     | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>   |
| Modifiable   | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Examples

Enable nonstandard behavior when handling default values and null values for the timestamp data type.

* Global level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET GLOBAL explicit_defaults_for_timestamp =ON;
   ```

* Session level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET explicit_defaults_for_timestamp =ON;
   ```
