|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ENABLE_OPTIMIZER_ROWGOAL

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V4.3.5 BP1.</p>
</main>

## Description

`ENABLE_OPTIMIZER_ROWGOAL` specifies whether the optimizer considers the impact of row goals (such as LIMIT operators) when estimating cardinality.

## Privilege requirements

* Global level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    |    Enum              |
| Default value      |  AUTO  |
| Value range    |    <ul><li>ON: Always enable row goals for estimation.</li><li>OFF: Always disable row goals for estimation.</li><li>AUTO: The optimizer decides whether to use row goals for estimation.            |
| Scope    |  <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` or `ALTER SESSION SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Examples

Execute the following command to enable row goals for estimation.

* Global level

    ```shell
    obclient> SET GLOBAL enable_optimizer_rowgoal=ON;
    ```

* Session level

    ```shell
    obclient> SET enable_optimizer_rowgoal=ON;
    ```
