|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# group_concat_max_len

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4.</p>
</main>

## Description

`group_concat_max_len` specifies the maximum length of the result of the `GROUP_CONCAT()` function.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the values of session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the values of global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can directly modify the values of session system variables.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type     | Uint                    |
| Default value       | 1024, in bytes         |
| Value range     | [4, 18446744073709551615] |
| Scope     | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>   |
| Modifiable   | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Examples

Set the maximum length of the result of the `GROUP_CONCAT()` function to 1024.

* Global level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET GLOBAL group_concat_max_len =1024;
   ```

* Session level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET group_concat_max_len =1024;
   ```
