|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# auto_increment_offset

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`auto_increment_offset` specifies the starting value of the `AUTO_INCREMENT` column.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a Session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a Session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |      **Description**           |
|----------|-------------------------|
| Type   | Uint                    |
| Default value     | 1                       |
| Value range   | [1, 65535]            |
| Scope   | <ul><li>Global </li><li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Examples

Set the value of the `AUTO_INCREMENT` column to 100.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET auto_increment_offset =100;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL auto_increment_offset =100;
  ```
