|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# interactive_timeout

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4.</p>
</main>

## Description

`interactive_timeout` specifies the number of seconds that the server waits for activity before closing an interactive connection.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenant can directly modify the values of global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the values of session system variables of their own tenants.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |                                                   **Description**                                                   |
|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Type     | Int                     |
| Default value       | 28800                   |
| Value range     | [1, 31536000]         |
| Scope     | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>   |
| Modifiable   | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Considerations

When a session starts, the session `wait_timeout` is initialized based on the value of the global `wait_timeout` or the global `interactive_timeout`, depending on the client type. The client type is defined by the `CLIENT_INTERACTIVE` connection option of `mysql_real_connect`. For more information about the `wait_timeout` variable, see [wait_timeout](../300.global-system-variable/14600.wait_timeout-global.md).

## Examples

Set the number of seconds that the server waits for activity before closing an interactive connection to 28800.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET interactive_timeout = 28800;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL interactive_timeout = 28800;
  ```

<!-- ## References

Handling connection disconnection between the database and server -->
