|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# long_query_time

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V2.2.77. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `long_query_time` variable specifies the threshold for slow queries. Queries that take longer than this value are recorded in the slow query log.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable applies only to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to query the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to query the values of session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their respective tenants.

## Attributes

|**Attribute**| **Description**|
|--------|---------|
|Type | Numeric |
|Default value   | 10, in seconds |
|Value range |[0, +∞)|
|Applicability |<ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>|
|Modifiable| Yes. You can modify this variable by using the SET statement.|

## Examples

Set the threshold for slow queries to 10s.

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL long_query_time=10;
  ```

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET long_query_time=10;
  ```