|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# max_allowed_packet

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>`max_allowed_packet` is available starting with V3.2.3. </p>
</main>

## Description

`max_allowed_packet` specifies the maximum size of a network packet.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can query the value of Global system variables by using the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) and the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode).

* Modify variables

  * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of Global system variables.

  * A MySQL user tenant must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of Global system variables.

  * An Oracle user tenant must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of Global system variables.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |        **Description**       |
|-----------|-----------------------|
| Type    | Int                             |
| Default value      | 16777216, in bytes. <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>Starting from V4.2.1, the default value is changed from 4194304 to 16777216. </p></main> |
| Value range    | [1024, 1073741824]             |
| Scope    | Global            |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET GLOBAL` statement to modify the value. |

## Usage

* You can execute the `SET GLOBAL` statement to modify the value of the `max_allowed_packet` variable in Global mode. You cannot execute the `SET SESSION` statement to modify the value of the `max_allowed_packet` variable in Session mode.

* When you use this variable, you need to adjust the value on both the client and server sides. If the values on the two sides are inconsistent, an error `ERROR 1153 (08S01) : Got a packet bigger than 'max_allowed_packet' bytes` is returned.

## Examples

Set the maximum size of a network packet to 16777216.

```shell
obclient> SET GLOBAL max_allowed_packet=16777216;
```

## References

[RANDSTR function length setting](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/200.common-tenant-of-mysql-mode/400.functions-of-mysql-mode/200.single-row-functions-of-mysql-mode/400.mathematical-functions-of-mysql-mode/2900.randstr-of-mysql-mode.md)
