|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# max_sp_recursion_depth

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V2.1. </p>
</main>

## Description

`max_sp_recursion_depth` specifies the maximum number of recursive calls allowed for any stored procedure.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of Global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of Session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of Global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of Global system variables.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of Global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and all user tenants can directly modify the value of Session system variables.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |   **Description**   |
|-----------|--------------|
| Type    | Int                     |
| Default value      | 0, which indicates that the current stored procedure cannot be recursively called.     |
| Value range    | [0, 255]              |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global</li> <li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Examples

Set the current stored procedure to be non-recursive.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET max_sp_recursion_depth =0;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL max_sp_recursion_depth =0;
  ```
