|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type| MySQL Mode |
|machine-translation||

# automatic_sp_privileges

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.1. </li><li>For OceanBase Database V4.2.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </li></ul>
</main>

## Description

The `automatic_sp_privileges` variable specifies whether to automatically grant ALTER and EXECUTE privileges to the creator of a stored procedure.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable applies only to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to query the values of global system variables.

* Modify variables

  * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the values of global system variables.

  * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|---------|---------------|
| Type    | int                 |
| Default value     | 1   |
| Valid values    |  [0,1]                    |
| Scope    |  Global       |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can modify the value by using the `SET` statement. |

## Considerations

When the value of this variable is 1 when a stored procedure is created, the creator is automatically granted ALTER and EXECUTE privileges on the stored procedure. If the value is 0, the creator is not granted these privileges.

## Examples

Set the value of this variable to 1 to automatically grant ALTER and EXECUTE privileges to the creator of a stored procedure.

```shell
obclient> SET GLOBAL automatic_sp_privileges = true;
```

## References

For information about the privileges of stored function, query the [mysql.procs_priv](../../../../700.reference/700.system-views/300.system-view-of-sys-tenant/200.dictionary-view-of-sys-tenant/3510.mysql-procs_priv-of-sys-tenant.md) view.
