|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# net_write_timeout

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>net_write_timeout is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `net_write_timeout` variable specifies the number of seconds to wait for a block write to a connection before interrupting the write.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) or `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to query the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) or `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**   |        **Description**      |
|-----------|------------------------|
| Type   | Int                     |
| Default value     | 60                      |
| Valid values   | [1, 31536000]         |
| Effective scope   | <ul><li>Global </li><li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Remarks

When the server writes data to the client, the `net_write_timeout` variable specifies the timeout value in seconds before the write is interrupted.

## Examples

Set the number of seconds to wait for a block write connection before interrupting the write operation to 60.

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL net_write_timeout=60;
  ```

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET net_write_timeout=60;
  ```
