|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|Oracle Mode|
|machine-translation||

# nls_date_format

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in V2.2.30. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `nls_date_format` variable controls the format for converting a date to a string and the format for implicitly converting a string to a date.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>The variable applies only to OceanBase Database's Oracle-compatible mode. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    Both the `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) to query the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    Both the `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle-compatible mode) to query the values of session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * Tenants can modify global system variables directly.

    * Oracle-compatible tenants can modify global system variables only with the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege.

  * Session level

    Both the `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the values of session system variables for their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  | **Description**  |
|---------|---------|
| Parameter type    | Varchar |
| Default value      | DD-MON-RR |
| Effect scope    | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul> |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can modify it by using the `SET` statement. |

## Considerations

The data type of `start_date` is DATE. Its value is converted to text using the format model specified by the system variable `NLS_DATE_FORMAT`, and the result is then passed into the SQL text. A datetime format model can simply consist of text enclosed in double quotation marks.

## Configuration examples

Set the format for converting a date to a string to `DD-MON-RR`.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET nls_date_format='DD-MON-RR';
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL nls_date_format='DD-MON-RR';
  ```

## References

* [Date and time expressions](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/600.expression-of-oracle-mode/700.date-and-time-expressions-of-oracle-mode.md)
* [Considerations for data conversion](../../../../700.reference/500.sql-reference/100.sql-syntax/300.common-tenant-of-oracle-mode/300.basic-elements-of-oracle-mode/200.data-type-comparison-rules-of-oracle-mode/700.security-considerations-for-data-conversion-of-oracle-mode.md)
