|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# binlog_row_image

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4.</p>
</main>

## Description

`binlog_row_image` specifies whether to record all column values.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` and all user tenants can view the values of Global system variables by executing the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement, or querying the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode).

  * Session level

    `sys` and all user tenants can view the values of Session system variables by executing the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement, or querying the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode).

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can modify the value of a Global system variable directly.

    * MySQL user tenants need to have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants need to have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` and all user tenants can modify the value of a Session system variable directly.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    | Enum                                                |
| Default value      | FULL                                                |
| Value range    | <ul><li>FULL: records all column values. </li><li>MINIMAL: records only modified columns in DML operations to improve the master-slave replication throughput, reduce the binlog size, and decrease the network resource and server memory consumption. </li><li>NOBLOB: Not supported. </li></ul> |
| Scope    |  <ul><li>Global<li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Considerations

* Full-row image means that an OBServer node records all column values (both the old and new values) for each statement of the UPDATE or DELETE type. In the non-full-row image, only the new values are recorded.

* The modified variable takes effect only for new sessions, not for existing sessions, including the session in which you modified the variable.

## Examples

* Set the value to FULL to record all columns.

* Global level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET GLOBAL binlog_row_image=FULL;
   ```

* Session level

   ```shell
   obclient> SET binlog_row_image=FULL;
   ```
