|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_bnl_join_cache_size

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`ob_bnl_join_cache_size` specifies the number of data records to be cached in one batch for batch nested loop join (BNLJ).

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the values of session system variables.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can modify the values of global system variables.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the values of global system variables.

  * Session level

    `sys` and all user tenants can modify the values of session system variables.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**   |        **Description**      |
|------------|------------------------|
| Type   | Int                     |
| Default value     | 10485760                |
| Value range   | [1, 9223372036854775807]       |
| Scope   | <ul><li>Global </li><li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify this variable. |

## Examples

Set the number of data records to be cached in one batch for batch nested loop join (BNLJ) to 10485760.

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_bnl_join_cache_size=10485760;
  ```

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_bnl_join_cache_size=10485760;
  ```
