|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|
|machine-translation||

# ob_compatibility_control

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.2. </li><li>For OceanBase Database V4.2.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.3. </li></ul>
</main>

## Description

`ob_compatibility_control` specifies the compatible MySQL version in the case of a product behavior conflict. Valid values are `MYSQL5.7` and `MYSQL8.0`. If you set this variable to `MYSQL5.7`, MySQL 8.0-based features without behavior conflicts will not be affected. You can specify the compatible version when you create a tenant. It cannot be modified after the tenant is created.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable is applicable to only OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </p>
</main>

## Limitations

* Query variables

  In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement to query the variable at the global level or query the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) for the variable at the global level.

* Modify variables

  After the variable is created, you cannot modify it by executing an SQL statement.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type | ENUM |
| Default value | MYSQL5.7 |
| Value range | `MYSQL5.7` and `MYSQL8.0` |
| Effective scope | Global |
| Modifiable | No. You can set the variable when you create a tenant. After the tenant is created, you cannot modify the variable by executing the `SET` or `ALTER SESSION SET` statement. |

## Considerations

* When you upgrade a tenant without this variable to a version with this variable, this variable is set to `MYSQL5.7` by default. When you create a tenant, you can specify a value for this variable.

* If the OceanBase Database version specified by `ob_compatibility_version` is earlier than V4.2.3, existing MySQL 8.0-based features are compatible with MySQL 8.0 regardless of the value of `ob_compatibility_control`.

## Examples

Set the compatible MySQL version to MySQL 5.7 when you create a tenant.

```shell
obclient> create tenant tenant_m57 zone_list=('z1'),primary_zone='z1',resource_pool_list=('pool1') set ob_compatibility_mode='mysql',ob_compatibility_control='MYSQL5.7',ob_tcp_invited_nodes='%';
```

## References

* [ob_compatibility_version](6160.ob_compatibility_version-global.md)
* [V$OB_COMPATIBILITY_CONTROL](../../../700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/30850.v-ob_compatibility_control-of-mysql-mode.md)
