|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type|MySQL Mode|
|machine-translation||

# ob_compatibility_version

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.2. </li><li>For OceanBase Database V4.2.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.3. </li></ul>
</main>

## Description

`ob_compatibility_version` specifies the compatible OceanBase Database version in the case of normal product behavioral changes.

## Limitations

* Query the variable

  In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement to query the variable at the global level or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle mode) or `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) for the variable at the global level.

* Modify the variable

  * In the `sys` tenant, you can directly change the value of the variable at the global level.

  * In a MySQL user tenant, you must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to change the value of the variable at the global level.

  * In an Oracle user tenant, you must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to change the value of the variable at the global level.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type | Varchar |
| Default value | 4.2.1.0 |
| Value range | 4.2.3.0 and other released OceanBase Database versions |
| Effective scope | Global |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `SET` or `ALTER SESSION SET` statement to modify the variable. |

## Considerations

* If you do not specify this variable when you create a tenant, the value of `cluster_version` is used by default.

* This variable applies only to product behavioral changes in the future, and cannot control existing behavioral changes in released versions such as V4.2.2 and V4.2.1. For example, when you set this variable to `4.2.1.0` or `4.2.2.0` for a cluster of OceanBase Database V4.2.3.0, product behaviors of the cluster do not change.

## Examples

Set the compatible OceanBase Database version in the case of normal product behavioral changes to V4.2.3.0 when you create a tenant.

```shell
obclient> create tenant tenant_m57 zone_list=('z1'),primary_zone='z1',resource_pool_list=('pool1') set ob_compatibility_mode='MYSQL',ob_compatibility_version='4.2.3.0',ob_tcp_invited_nodes='%';
set global ob_compatibility_version ='4.3.1.0';
```

## References

* [ob_compatibility_control](6150.ob_compatibility_control-global.md)
* [V$OB_COMPATIBILITY_CONTROL](../../../700.system-views/400.system-view-of-mysql-mode/300.performance-view-of-mysql-mode/30850.v-ob_compatibility_control-of-mysql-mode.md)
