|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in V4.2.1 BP2. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold` variable specifies the default row-based storage threshold for LOB fields when a table is created.

  <main id="notice" >
    <h4>Applicability</h4>
    <p>This variable applies only to OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </p>
  </main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query a variable

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify a variable

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenant.

## Attributes

| Attribute       | Description |
| ----------| ----- |
| Type    | Int |
| Default value      | 8192, in bytes <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>The default value of this variable was changed from 4096 to 8192 in V4.3.2. </p></main> |
| Value range    | [0, 0.75M] <br> If the value is 0, INROW is disabled. |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global  </li><li>Session </li></ul>|
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` or `ALTER SESSION SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Considerations

`ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold` is a global-level system variable that actually affects the table-level attribute `lob_inrow_threshold` of newly created tables (existing tables are not affected). Modifying the system variable `ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold` will impact the in-row and out-of-row storage threshold for LOB columns in newly created tables, while modifying the table-level attribute `lob_inrow_threshold` will affect the in-row and out-of-row storage for that specific table. If `lob_inrow_threshold` is not specified when creating a table, the value of the system variable `ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold` will be used as the threshold for in-row and out-of-row storage of LOB columns in that table.

## Examples

The following examples show how to set the value of `ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold` without specifying `LOB_INROW_THRESHOLD`:

1. Set the value of `ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold` to 40960 bytes.

   * Session level

     ```shell
     obclient> SET ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold = 40960;
     ```

   * Global level

     ```shell
     obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold = 40960;
     ```

2. Create a table named `t` without specifying `LOB_INROW_THRESHOLD`.

   ```shell
   obclient> CREATE TABLE t(pk int, data text);
   ```

   In this case, the value of the `ob_default_lob_inrow_threshold` variable is used as the INROW threshold for the `t` table, which is 40960 bytes.
