|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_enable_ps_parameter_anonymous_block

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul>
    <li>In V4.3.x, this variable is available starting with V4.3.2.</li>
    <li>In V4.2.x, this variable is available starting V4.2.3.</li>
  </ul>
</main>

## Description

`ob_enable_ps_parameter_anonymous_block` specifies whether to enable parameterization of anonymous blocks and `call` statements in the parse stage in the PL/SQL mode.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to obtain the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * A MySQL user tenant must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * An Oracle user tenant must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    The `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type    |    Boolean              |
| Default value      |  ON  |
| Value range    |    <ul><li>ON</li><li>OFF</li>            |
| Scope    |  <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>  |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Examples

Enable parameterization of anonymous blocks and `call` statements in the parse stage in the PL/SQL mode.

* Global level

```shell
obclient> SET GLOBAL aob_enable_ps_parameter_anonymous_block=ON;
```

* Session level

```shell
obclient> SET ob_enable_ps_parameter_anonymous_block=ON;
```
