|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_enable_aggregation_pushdown

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`ob_enable_aggregation_pushdown` specifies whether to allow aggregation operations to be pushed down.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |        **Description**            |
|----------|----------------------------|
| Type     | Bool                    |
| Default value       | 1                       |
| Value range     | <ul><li>0: disabled</li><li>1: enabled </li></ul>       |
| Effective scope     | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable   | Yes, you can execute the `SET` statement to modify this variable.|

## Examples

Enable aggregation pushdown.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_enable_aggregation_pushdown =1;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_enable_aggregation_pushdown =1;
  ```
