|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_enable_pl_cache

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <ul><li>For OceanBase Database V4.3.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.3.1. </li><li>For OceanBase Database V4.2.x, this variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.2.2. </li></ul>
</main>

## Description

The `ob_enable_pl_cache` variable specifies whether to enable the PL cache module.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) and `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) and `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**  |
|---------|---------------|
| Type    |    bool              |
| Default value     |  1  |
| Value range    | <ul><li>true: Enable  </li><li>false: Disable </li></ul>                   |
| Effect scope    |  <ul><li>GLOBAL  </li><li>SESSION </li></ul>|
| Modifiable    | Yes. You can modify the value by using the `SET` statement.|

## Considerations

We recommend that you enable this feature. If you disable the PL cache module, the stored procedure is recompiled each time it is executed.

## Examples

* Set the variable at the session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_enable_pl_cache=true;
  ```

* Set the variable at the global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_enable_pl_cache=true;
  ```
