|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_enable_rich_error_msg

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.0.0. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `ob_enable_rich_error_msg` variable controls whether to display server IP address, time, and trace ID when an SQL statement fails.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    Both the `sys` tenant and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (in Oracle mode) or `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (in MySQL mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    Both the `sys` tenant and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (in Oracle mode) or `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (in MySQL mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    The `sys` tenant and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenants.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |      **Description**    |
|-----------|------------------|
| Type    | Bool        |
| Default value      | False       |
| Value range    | <ul><li>False: does not display </li><li>True: displays </li></ul>|
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global </li><li>Session </li></ul>        |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can modify the value by using the `SET` statement. |

## Examples

Set the parameter to disable displaying the svr_ip, time, and trace_id information when an error occurs during SQL execution.

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_enable_rich_error_msg =False;
  ```

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_enable_rich_error_msg =False;
  ```
