|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_enable_transmission_checksum

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>`ob_enable_transmission_checksum` is available starting with OceanBase Database V2.1. </p>
</main>

## Description

`ob_enable_transmission_checksum` specifies whether to check the packet checksum between OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) and OBServer.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) or `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) view to obtain the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) or `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) view to obtain the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |        **Description**            |
|----------|----------------------------|
| Type    | Bool                      |
| Default value      | 1                         |
| Value range    | <ul><li>0: disable packet checksums </li> <li>1: enable packet checksums </li></ul>       |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global</li> <li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify this variable. |


## Examples

Enable packet checksums between OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) and OBServer.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET  ob_enable_transmission_checksum=1;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_enable_transmission_checksum =1;
  ```
