|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_max_read_stale_time

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in OceanBase Database V4.1.0.  </p>
</main>

## Description

`ob_max_read_stale_time` specifies the maximum latency threshold, in μs, for weak-consistency read queries.

<main id="notice">
  <h4>Applicability</h4>
  <p>This variable is applicable to only OceanBase Database in MySQL mode. </p>
</main>

## Limitations

* Query the variable

  * Global-level operation

    In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement to query the variable at the global level or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle mode) or `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) for the variable at the global level.

  * Session-level operation

    In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement to query the variable at the session level or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle mode) or `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) for the variable at the session level.

* Modify the variable

  * Global-level operation

    * In the `sys` tenant, you can directly change the value of the variable at the global level.

    * In a MySQL user tenant, you must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to change the value of the variable at the global level.

  * Session-level operation

    In the `sys` tenant or a user tenant, you can directly change the value of the variable at the session level for the current tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** | **Description** |
|--------|---------|
| Type | Integer |
| Default value | `-1`, which indicates ineffective. <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>The default value is changed from `5000000` to `-1` in OceanBase Database V4.1.0 BP2 and later. </p></main> |
| Value range | [-1, 9223372036854775807]<main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p> In OceanBase Database V4.1.0 BP2 and later, the value range is changed from [0, 9223372036854775807] to [-1, 9223372036854775807]. </p></main> |
| Effective scope | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul> |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `SET` statement to modify the variable. |

## Considerations

When the latency threshold for weak-consistency reads is controlled at the session level, the data returned for weak-consistency read requests in the current session must fall within the specified latency threshold. However, you can set a different latency threshold for other sessions.

## Examples

Set the maximum latency threshold for weak-consistency read queries to 5,000,000 μs.

* Session-level operation

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_max_read_stale_time =5000000;
  ```

* Global-level operation

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_max_read_stale_time =5000000;
  ```