|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_pl_block_timeout

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V2.2.77. </p>
</main>

## Description

`ob_pl_block_timeout` specifies the maximum timeout period for PL.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a Session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a Global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of a Session system variable.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |        **Description**            |
|----------|----------------------------|
| Type    | Int                     |
| Default value      | 3216672000000000, unit: us        |
| Value range    | [0, 9223372036854775807]         |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global</li> <li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value.|

## Examples

Set the maximum timeout period for PL to 3216672000000000 microseconds.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_pl_block_timeout =3216672000000000;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_pl_block_timeout =3216672000000000;
  ```
