|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_query_timeout

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable is available starting with V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

`ob_query_timeout` specifies the maximum execution time of an SQL statement.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenant and all user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or query the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (MySQL mode) to view the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global level

    * The `sys` tenant can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenant must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    Both the `sys` tenant and all user tenants can directly modify the value of session system variables for their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute** |        **Description**            |
|----------|----------------------------|
| Type    | Int                     |
| Default value      | 10000000, in microseconds     |
| Value range    | [0, 3216672000000000] |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global</li> <li>Session </li></ul>    |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can execute the `SET` statement to modify the value. |

## Examples

Set the maximum execution time of an SQL statement to 10000000 microseconds.

* Session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_query_timeout =10000000;
  ```

* Global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_query_timeout=10000000;
  ```
