|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_table_access_policy

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>This variable was introduced in V4.3.3. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `ob_table_access_policy` variable controls the optimizer to prioritize the selection of specific storage formats when generating a base table plan.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) and `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` (Oracle mode) and `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` (MySQL mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Global take effect

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Session take effect

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |    **Description**     |
|-----------|---------------|
| Type   | Enum       |
| Default value     | AUTO |
| Value range   | <ul><li>`ROW_STORE`: Prioritizes row-based storage format. </li> <li>`COLUMN_STORE`: Prioritizes column-based storage format. </li> <li>`AUTO`: The optimizer automatically decides the storage format. </li></ul> |
| Effective scope   | <ul><li>Global</li> <li>Session</li></ul>       |
| Modifiable | Yes. You can use the `SET` statement to modify it. |

## Examples

The following examples show how to configure the optimizer to prioritize the selection of column-based storage format when generating a base table plan.

* Session take effect

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_table_access_policy='COLUMN_STORE';
  ```

* Global take effect

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_table_access_policy='COLUMN_STORE';
  ```
