|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_trx_idle_timeout

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in V2.1. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `ob_trx_idle_timeout` variable specifies the transaction idle timeout period, which is the period of time between the execution of two statements in a transaction. If the period of time between the execution of two statements in a transaction exceeds this value, the transaction will time out.

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
  <h4>Notice</h4>
  <p>After distributed transaction routing is enabled, the configuration of the <code>ob_trx_idle_timeout</code> variable will take no effect. </p>
</main>

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable for the current tenant.

## Attributes

| **Attribute**  |      **Description**            |
|-----------|--------------------------|
| Type    | Int                     |
| Default value      | 86400000000, in microseconds. <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>The default value of this variable was changed from 120000000 to 86400000000 in V4.0.0. </p></main>    |
| Value range    | [100000000, +∞)         |
| Scope    | <ul><li>Global</li><li>Session</li></ul>     |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can modify this variable by using the `SET` statement.|

## Examples

Set the transaction idle timeout period to 86400000000 microseconds.

* Set the variable at the session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_trx_idle_timeout =86400000000;
  ```

* Set the variable at the global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_trx_idle_timeout =86400000000;
  ```
