|description||
|---|---|
|keywords||
|dir-name||
|dir-name-en||
|tenant-type||
|machine-translation||

# ob_trx_timeout

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
  <h4>Note</h4>
  <p>This variable was introduced in V1.4. </p>
</main>

## Description

The `ob_trx_timeout` variable specifies the transaction timeout value.

## Privilege requirements

* Query variables

  * Global level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_GLOBAL_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.GLOBAL_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) to query the value of a global system variable.

  * Session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can execute the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement or view the `SYS.TENANT_VIRTUAL_SESSION_VARIABLE` view (in Oracle mode) or the `information_schema.SESSION_VARIABLES` view (in MySQL mode) to query the value of a session system variable.

* Modify variables

  * Set the variable at the global level

    * `sys` tenants can directly modify the value of a global system variable.

    * MySQL user tenants must have the `SUPER` or `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

    * Oracle user tenants must have the `ALTER SYSTEM` privilege to modify the value of a global system variable.

  * Set the variable at the session level

    `sys` tenants and user tenants can directly modify the value of a session system variable in their own tenant.

## Attributes

|  **Attribute**  |    **Description**     |
|------------|-------------------------|
| Type    | Int                     |
| Default value      | 86400000000, in microseconds.<main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>The default value of this variable was changed from 100000000 to 86400000000 in V4.0.0. </p></main>            |
| Applicable scope    | <li> Global   <li> Session |
| Modifiable  | Yes. You can modify the value by using the `SET` statement.|

## Examples

The following examples show how to set the transaction timeout value to 86400000000 microseconds.

* Set the variable at the session level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET ob_trx_timeout =86400000000;
  ```

* Set the variable at the global level

  ```shell
  obclient> SET GLOBAL ob_trx_timeout =86400000000;
  ```
